tweets Albeit, a few days late. A Tech Innovations panel on which I served for the @DeptofDefense, along with Brett Goldstein (@bjgol) and Deputy Director Katie Olson (@KO_Chicago) for @DefenseDigital Services, in Augusta, Georgia. ...and, of course, Bernie. Their opposite circulation reveals that they were generated in different planetary hemispehres. Although they probably contain the same energy content. It's the frozen, taxidermic action poses that leaves me skeptical, irrespective of what the Daily Mail declares. You can't cheat physics. Yes. You're missing something in plain sight: What's portrayed is the light travel time between Earth & Mars at their closest - not the travel time between the Sun & Mars. From the Archives. In converation with Larry King in 2015, on mortality. Larry King, RIP (1933-2021) My only issue: other than snakes, the rest of us exert energy keeping our center of mass higher than where it wants to be. Unless we're propped up, the act of dying compromises that fact and you end up laying down to die - or simply falling over. Of possibe interest to you, in the wake of your comment: Good one. Forgot all about that. Sunset, I presume. Beautiful and instructive. Thanks for sharing. p.s. FYI: On the Equator, that spot never moves. And on the poles, it runs 180 degrees. Thanks. We work hard on @StarTalkRadio. But in case you never noticed, I never tell anyone who to vote for. And unless I'm asked, I never tell anyone who I vote for either. And whether or not I succeed, my *goal* is to educate, enlighten, & occasionally generate a smile. Never knew that the Statue of Liberty has a happy dance. My bad. My bad. Last month Jupiter & Saturn had a once-in-400yr conjunction Agent Cooper foretold this. Historicallywhen Jupiter & Saturn are conjunct, there are enormous shifts in power & fortunea potential for explosive change: good & baddue January to June (Twin Peaks S2, Ep21 ) Evidence you might be in a Cult: Your group has one leader - usually male. You revere this leader, and do what he tells you. Your group has the answers while nobody else does. And you actively deny that your group is a Cult. Evidence you might be in a Cult:: When you stop thinking for yourself and you've empowered a select few others in your group to do your thinking for you. One of the fastest ways to learn whether your group is a Cult is to ask a friend who is not in the group. Include running up steps in your exercise regimen. That might solve your dilemma. If you point a laser to the sky for one second, it makes a beam 300,000 km long, travelling in a straight line, forever through the universe - until it hits something. The hot air (steam) simply heats the milk. It then instantly bubbles up out of the cup. Whipped cream will float every time. Liquid cream pured in will dip low, but then return to the surface, until you stir and dissolve it into your drink. If I get the chance, I'll make sure India is on the Alien's Earth tour. Posted this five years ago. But from what has transpired in America recently, it's clear that not enough people paid attention. So I'll try again A meditation on Political vs. Personal vs. Objective Truths Well, it's about time. This should have happened 150 years ago. Science in the USA will become a Cabinet Level post. That's a correct understanding. Speed of light is squared in E=Mc^2 simply because the units for energy invoke a velocity squared. Classical kinetic energy takes the same form, but with a 1/2 in it: KE = 1/2 m v^2 Seems to me, if you can get the citizens of a Democracy to no longer agree on what is objectively true in the world, then you have conquered them with all the strength of an invading army. (A picture may help visualize this) People should have their mind blown at least once a week Seems to me, if you can get the citizens of a Democracy to no longer agree on what is objectively true in the world, then you have conquered them with all the strength of an invading army. Thanks for the shout out 1) I'm vastly more informed than presumed 2) I've never asserted that unexplained sky phenomena are not aliens. Only that being unexplained is not itself evidence of aliens Allow my skepticism to fuel your data-collecting. I want to meet the aliens too Imagine a world where Nations find the search for life in the Universe more interesting than the taking of life on Earth. Good one. But I think you mean: no one noticed it as late as I **posted** Hmm. Looks like @TheOnion's investigative reporters might have figured it out: Was wondering if I was the only person who noticed this Earth's rotation has never been perfect constant. Depends on many factors that re-distribute Earth's mass north-south, or inward and outward. e.g. glacial melts, migrating animals, Earth quakes, volcanoes. But also, tides sloshing on shores. You bring back 1978, I'll bring back my sideburns. The Big Bang. No. And in any case, the product is spelled Polident. Welcome to Twitter! FYI: I mention pop-culture objects and products and icons all the time. No need to be suspicious. Maaaaybe. Darn. I usually watch all videos to the very end. Missed that disclaimer. Thanks. Beautiful indeed. Especially the galloping reindeer. But I'm skeptical of the geometry of it all. Most objects are offered in 2D, requiring a **single** sightline to see and appreciate the full image. Yet the video lines-of-sight are changing constantly. I'm with David on that one. The entire beat-poem ends with a sequnce steeped in wonder. Sounds like somebody didn't watch all ten minutes of the video. Served on NASA's Advisory Council many years ago. But have had no affiliation since 2008. My annual post of the 10-minute beat poem Storm by @TimMinchin. A raw dose of sanity in a world that occasionally loses sight of the universe. January 2, 2021 Merry Perihelion to all residents of planet Earth. The day when Earth, in its oval orbit, is closer to the Sun than on any other day of the year. If interested Future scientist. New Year's is a calendric event, not an astronomical one. So it occurs at midnight Dec 31, no matter what. Hold all calls... It's New Year's Eve and I'm in the middle of @SYFY channel's annual Twilight Zone Marathon. See you on the other side, because 2020 was surely a twilight zone unto itself. No. I never go after the magic of an invented universe - only the things overlooked that derive from the real universe. Okay. The verdict is in. Aquaman's pitchfork in this image is officially a Quindent (from the Latin Quint rather than the Greek Penta). But for me, it just has many tines. So I'm going with Polydent. Yuuup. Anybody 52 light years away, can, in seven months, witness the first Moon Landing, - the light only then just reaching them. Thanks. Tenet has been on my list. FYI: Nolan is a friend of StarTalk: Sorry about the delay. The universe has been keeping me quite busy lately. I don't know how much you follow my work, but what is the single most political thing you know that I've said or done? I may be among the least political people in social media. : - ) Excellent. Tell her to hurry up. The world needs her. That's sooooo 17 hours ago. Check the posts. Maybe Santa's Reindeer are stationary, and it is we who fly past them on Christmas Eve. Nice bit of info. Thanks. But now you force us all to imagine Santa castrating Rudolph. Thanks for the compliment ! Excellent question Watt for Watt, Yellow light looks much brigher to the human eye than red. Better for overall visibility. Yes, yellow does just fine in the fog, just not better than Red. Santa doesn't know Zoology: Both male & female Reindeer grow antlers. But all male Reindeer lose their antlers in the late fall, well-before Christmas. So Santa's reindeer, which all sport antlers, are therefore all female, which means Rudolf has been misgendered. : - ) Santa Knows Physics: Of all colors, Red light penetrates fog best. That's why Benny the Blue-nosed reindeer never got the gig. Happy to chat about Carl Sagan one day. There's more there (of possible interest) than you are referencing. eg. He declined an inviation to the Reagan White House, in objection to his social and military policies. Cosmos: Possible Worlds Seven Wonders of the New World The 13th (and final) episode - my personal favorite - airs tonight on FOX, 9pm ET. And if interested, beginning tomorrow, all 13 episodes stream on Hulu. In my judgement, 2020 desperately needs this. Thanks for including me in the same sentence as Carl Sagan. There are many people you could have compared me with, but you chose Carl, so I take it as a high compliment. Of possible interest. FYI: You would have also experienced only short periods of twilight, relative to middle latitudes. December 21, 2020 A happy December Solstice to all residents of Planet Earth. Henceforth, day by day, the Northern Hemisphere gains daylight. The Southern Hemisphere loses daylight. And equatorial residents, as always, sit through 12hrs of day and 12hrs of night - all year round That's good. I know I'm a bit delayed on this, but why does Aquaman's Trident have five tines? What would count as evidence to you? The more royal, the better. With our without climate change, the high gravity of gas giant planets empowers them to keep their large quantities of lighter gasses such as H2 and He. Smaller planets can only hold onto rarer, much larger molecules (O2, N2, H2O, CO2) bcause they don't move as fast. Just Released @NASA Science Calendar for 2021/2022 Stunning. Informative. Enlightening. Dear Eastern Time Zone of the USA: Right now you're all in twilight, most beneath crystal clear skies. High in the west the Moon flies It's gazing down and away - at Jupiter & Saturn, sitting close to each other, getting closer by the day. Odd that our measures of animal intelligence are often tests for what we do better than they, rather than for what they do better than we. Total Solar Eclipse Monday. The Moon's fast-moving shadow makes landfall in Chile, just south of Santiago, then crosses Argentina. The press often calls these things rare but they occur somewhere on Earth every 2 or 3 years. As common as the Olympics, which nobody calls rare. Up late tonight? To the wee hours of the morning? Overnight, Earth plows though a swarm of orbiting asteroidal particles causing the best meteor shower of 2020 - the Geminids. Hayden's own Joe Rao tells all Fair point. On those grounds you may be familiar with 1/3 of what came out in that conversation. I appreciate your candor. But note that I'm interviewed 5-10x per week, yet I post hardly any of them. When I do post such links they've been pre-sifted for content and interest. (Have a peek at the comment thread for evidence.) You mean like days? Weeks? Fortnights? Months? Years? Decades? Centuries? Millennia? Purple. Correct. No. Looked like a case of OpEd trolling to me. And you know the rule: Don't feed the troll' Uranus orbits the Sun more slowly (7km/s) than we do on Earth (30 km/s). That speed difference creates a time dilation between us of 0.0000162 secs across 90 minutes. Not an issue. An elightened concept, ultimately traceable to Richard Dawkins. 90 minutes. (And that's pronounced yu-ran-us, in case you didn't know ) Thanks. I'm interviewed 10x per month and I hardly post any of them. This was an exception, and I'm glad you agree. Good one. Got 90 minutes with nothing better to do? A wide-ranging conversation on education, religion, spirituality, infinity, life, death, aliens, truth-seeking, and science literacy with @IndyCar and @NASCAR driver Danica Patrick, on her podcast #PrettyIntense. not if the #StarShip is in Mars orbit, which it looks like it is from the illustration. While in orbit, you and everything else is weightless. You learned science in school from this guy. Now learn about the science behind COVID masks. Unless learning isn't your thing. Nice. But hmm. Looks like there's an up and a down in those spaces. But last I checked, #Starship en rooute to Mars will not have a gravity field to establish that fact. A face deeply concerned about the fate of humanity and of civilization itself. All good. Never underestimate the power of knowing Physics. A rare, integrated WWII photo indeed. Thanks for sharing. Thank you. My 92 year old mother remembers 79 yrs ago, in email to family, Dec 7, 2020: The Pearl Harbor attack seems like yesterday. FDR via radio calmed the nation. Sang patriotic songs at school. Had air raid drills. Hid under desks. Our armed forces segregated. Mom, keepin' it real. This is what happens when Space Aliens discover you're eavesdropping on them. Or instead, maybe it's what happens when a country regresses in its urge to lead the world in Science. No problem there. Engineers are the real heroes of civilization. Nothing like saintly honesty. Ever wonder why Moon craters (and craters in general) are perfectly round? Or, perhaps you wondered why you never wondered? A Moon bow. With moonlight dispersing through ice crystals rather than raindrops. Or it's aliens. That completes a Holiday Twitter thread of 13 posts. I do this barely once a year. Thank you for your persistent interest in all my efforts to bring the Universe down to Earth. The full compilation of books I've written, co-written, written a Chapter in, written a Foreword for, are all here for your perusal. Know anyone ready for the next level? Two of my colleagues and I wrote Welcome to the Universe: An Astrophysical Tour, based on an introductory course we co-taught at Princeton back when I was on the faculty there. Still sad about Pluto? Get over it. Here's the whole story, from discovery to first-hand account of its demotion. Don't blame me. I was an accessory, yes. But Pluto had it coming. A personal favorite - my six-part video for The Great Courses series: The Inexplicable Universe: Unsolved Mysteries. Yup, it highlights the bleeding frontier of cosmic discovery, leaving you as mind-blown & befuddled as the rest of us. The popular StarTalk book also has a Young Readers Edition. As fun and educational as the original, but with all the stuff removed that would otherwise prevent a PG-13 rating. Got precocious kids in your life - age 7 to 12? Want to boost their geek quotient? Consider Astrophysics For YOUNG People In A Hurry. You may just stop asking what they want to be when they grow up. The first StarTalk Book remains a fan-favorite. Highly illustrated and chock-full of fun content inspired by the StarTalk show. And you know it's a big beautiful (giftable) book because National Geographic published it. Over time I've responded to letters from complete strangers, asking questions that range from Aliens, to God, to the meaning of life, to raising children. Interested? Consider Letters from an Astrophysicist. FYI: Audio Book narrated in my voice. If you are never in a hurry, then continue to ignore Astrophysics for People in a Hurry. It's for anyone who seeks basic fluency in my field - but doesn't have time to read fat books. FYI: Audio Book narrated in my voice. Know anybody who likes history? Consider Accessory to War: The Unspoken Alliance Between Astrophysics and the Military. 500 pages that explore connections between my profession and centuries of military conflict. Audio Book narrated by @CourtneyBVance Oh, and those same fan-designed Tee-shirt images come in PopSockets too. Want to wear my Twitter quotes and other cosmic quips? Hundreds of fan-designed, neil-approved Tee-shirts & hoodies are sold by Amazon. Portions of my proceeds go to not-for-profit organizations that foster science literacy. Fan of StarTalk? A small, but rotating selection of Merch from the new StarTalk Store: If interested, what follows is a baker's dozen Twitter-thread of affordable, branded gift-ideas for the Holidays - all between $9 and $45, plus a video course for $99. I rather thought I was enhancing it. Watching Football now? You are watching Physics. Rarely do things vanish in the daytime. Something to think about. No, but if it burns within you, and you are a Startalk Patreon, you can ask the question for Cosmic Queries. The Milky Way, and most spiral galaxies, are literally flatter than a flapjack. I think back then, only the men were armed. Fictional (and real) Starships. Mesmerizing. Just Mesmerizing. Thank you @Astro_Pontes for your warm Tweet about my letter to Brazil. The publisher is now putting together a panel of scientists to publicly discuss research in Brazil. Good to see this subject come front & center. I of course will share stories about science in the USA. All you had to says was Get off my lawn. Ten After Ten. Not too early in the morning. Not too late in the evening. Not too on-time. Not too tardy. A good time anywhere in the universe. I happen to like Ten After Ten. If Space Aliens studied Earth culture, they might wonder why the Time in printed ads is usually Ten Minutes After Ten. Could all these watches, and the people who wear them, be frozen in some Phantom Zone and need to be set free? Wow. Didn't think that last tweet needed clarification. We're all the same refers to us being the same species. The virus doesn't discriminate. It just cares that you are human. The virus doesn't discriminate. But systems of health care do. Sorry, I guess I needed to be clearer that I was referring to us all as the same species. Thank you. Health care discriminates. The virus doesn't. Health care discriminates. The virus doesn't We assemble Into tribes based on politics, religion, skin color, language, education, birthplace, wealth, & gender expression. Yet COVID-19 reminds us we're all the same. The virus doesn't discriminate, even if we do. On Dec 21, 2020, Jupiter & Saturn slide within a tenth of a degree of each other. If your vision is no better than 20/100, the two planets will look as one. Close encounters among celestial objects are conjunctions Deborah Byrd & Bruce McClure say more: Between now and Dec 21 Saturn & Jupiter approach each other on the sky until a mere tenth of a degree separates them. Last time this happened Galileo was alive. The solar system: A Cosmic Ballet, choreographed by the forces of gravity. Joe Rao tells all: Leave them a calculus problem to solve before they're fed. Let's see how they do. If Archimedes were a bird A thirsty Magpie, displaces water with stones, allowing it to drink continually from the top of the bottle. That's Badass. Gotta love when farm dogs know Physics. For some reason, the painting is already alive in my head, but this helps even more. van Gogh's The Starry Night, Saint Rémy de Provence, France Analysis of the crescent Moon and Venus, reveals that the painting captures the early morning hours near the Summer Solstice 1889 - just before sunrise. So for me, it's The Starry Dawn Never said the asteroid was going to hit. The newpaper headlines exaggerated my statements. Why does ice float? There's more going on there than you might expect. And now, one last clue: KNOWLEDGE for $1,000 Answer: He nurtured a Television safe-space for smart people Question: Who was Alex Trebek (1940-2020) ? Farewell, patron saint of geeks. Jeopardy host since 1984 A backward pass in their moving coordinate system. Formally, it's a Galilean Transformation in which the running back was behind the QB at all times during the pass and catch. Fully legit in the world of physics. Would indeed be ironic if Donald Trump lost the presidential election by a margin of votes equal to the number of his supporters who died from COVID-19, for having refused to wear masks in public. Do you say Presidential Elections are rare? The Olympics? The World Cup? If so, then okay. How often does a Blue Moon land on Halloween, you may ask? Depends. It could be November 1 for you, while time zones to your West are still trick-or-treating. Back in the 20th and 21st centuries, the USA saw eight Halloween Blue Moons: 1906 1925 1944 2020 2039 2058 2077 & 2096. The expression Once in a Blue Moon is colloquial for The thing hardly ever happens. But If you meant it literally, then that thing will occur every two or three years. So, like most cosmic happenings, Blue Moons aren't entirely rare, even if we want to think they are. Blue Moon alert: This year, a Full Moon lands on Halloween. With a 29.5-day cycle of phases, any time you squeeze two full moons into a month, the second one is called the Blue Moon. Yes, that means February is S.O.L. in its bid for Blue Moons. Thanks for the note. I was thinking South American when I wrote the letter. An easy fix. Thanks. But that is precisely why I wrote the letter. Dear Brazil, To fear high voter turnout is to implicitly admit that your Political views do not represent those of the Majority. If interested, here's a 35-minute @StarTalkRadio video of me interviewing my Mother for Mother's Day last year. My 92 year old mother, a first-generation mainland-born Puerto Rican, cast her ballot Wednesday morning, minutes after her voting center opened. says the person who has not yet seen the 13 min video. More than you ever cared to know about why it's time to retire the saying: What goes up must come down. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: A third of you (still) want Pluto to be a planet. But it's not. So get over it. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: Nearly (only?) 400 out of 185,000 respondents have been hospitalized for COVID-19. Of course we don't know how many have died. But for all others, please continue to stay smart, stay healthy, and heed the advice medial professionals Reflections on the statistics of my followers: 7% of you are Vegan/Vegetarian, which is close to the 8% of you in the world's population. Meanwhile, nearly 90% are omnivores, I among you. Although lately I consume dead animals no more than about two days a week. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: More than 80% of you are non-religious. But one in 14 (7%) identify as having religion as a way of life. You follow me knowing that not all of my content resonates with your views. Thank you for coming along for the ride. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: One fourth of you identify as politically Centrist with more than half identifying as Liberal. So the Conservative voices that arise in my threads, though ardent, are a small minority of all followers. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: One in four of you have visited only one, or no other countries in your life. In my experience, it's always good to do all you can to see how others live - lest you think your way of life is the only way of life. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: 43% of you know only one Language. I am among you, but only if you don't count the computer languages I know. And congrats to the 7% who know four or more languages. That's badass in every way. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: Domestically & especially Internationally, more Men use Twitter than Women. Maybe Twitter breeds over-talkers, best suiting male modes of interaction. In any case, my followers are 78% Male 20% Female. With 1% Non-binary. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: 67% of my followers self-identify as having Light skin, and 1% with Dark skin, which simply tells me I am badly under-represented in Africa. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: Sixty percent of you are fluent in the Metric System. Wow. Either Americans are successfully inching in that direction, or most of my following is International. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: Consistent with all users of Twitter, there's a nearly equal split between City living and the Suburbs, with one in seven of you living in Rural zones - where night skies are filled with stars. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: As expected, 90% of my followers live in the northern hemisphere - 'cause that's where most of the land is. Reflections on the statistics of my followers: Most of you are half my age or less. More significantly, only 3.5% of my followers are my age or older. That's half of who in that age group uses Twitter. I wish I knew what any of that means. Thanks for participating in my two-day, 14-question Twitter Poll. Nearly everyone who answered did so within 12 hours. Thanks for this enthusiasm. What follows is a thread of my Reflections on the statistics of who you are. Excellent question. I need to cross-correlate a lot of these answers, and especially compare with base averages from Twitter itself, before we can draw any reliable conclusions about my followers. (14/14) Is Pluto a planet? (13/14) Have you caught COVID-19? (12/14) What best describes your Diet? (11/14) What best describes how Religious you are? (10/14) How do you lean Politically? (9/14) How many other Countries have you ever visited? (8/14) How many spoken Languages do you understand? (7/14) What is (or will be) your final Education Level? (6/14) What is your Gender identity? (5/14) How would you identify your Skin Color? (4/14) Are you fluent with the Metric System? (3/14) What part of your Country do you live in? (2/14) Which Earth Hemisphere do you live in? (1/14) How old are you in Earth-years? Two Day, 14-Question Anonymous Poll You know who I am. But to communicate with you better, I'd like to learn (statistically) who you are. If interested, what follows is a 14-question (14-Tweet) threaded anonymous poll. Should take you less than a minute to complete. Thank you. :Shhhh. Clearly a space alien device they accidentally left behind after escaping hurriedly upon being spotted by people with cameras. Actions speak louder than words. The two-thousand-tweet response to my A Coronavirus walks into a bar... request was entertaining. I tasked Brian Malow (whose actual handle is @ScienceComedian) to collate the best and the worst in a Twitter-thread. Here they are. Thanks, Brian. Worried that it might have been a CCD artifact. But it's there in this SDSS photo of NGC588. I don't know what catalog it might otherwise appear in. This joke needs a good ending, but I can't think of one: A coronavirus walks into a bar ...or shall we all wash our hands of such humor? : - ) While coming out of Ice Ages, its takes thousands of years for Earth's temperature to warm. We see that same level of warming in the last 100 years - the era of fossil fuels. A good and important question. 1) The Pentagon always prepares for worst-case scenarios. 2) News tends to gravitate towards singular research results without the patience to wait for experimental or observational verification. Of likely interest to you Thanks for sharing your concerns. I will just point out that appealing to authority is entirely different from appealing to data. Hence the carefully selected phrase Research shows in the Tweet. SCIENTISTS: @OSiRISRex intercepted asteroid Bennu, 300-million km away, to retrieve samples for lab analysis. RESPONSE: Oooh! SCIENTISTS: Research shows humans are catastrophically warming Earth RESPONSE: That conflicts with what I want to be true, so it must be false. Honored to be compared in any way wtih Carl Sagan. Rumor has it that Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin agreed to fake the Moon landinig. But to make the footage look as authentic as possible, they urged NASA to film it on-location. And NASA agreed. Nope. Actually, we do have plans, but none of them are funded. ...not the results of Presidential Elections. Asteroid 2018VP1, a refrigerator-sized space-rock, is hurtling towards us at more than 40,000 km/hr. It may buzz-cut Earth on Nov 2, the day before the Presidential Election. It's not big enough to cause harm. So if the World ends in 2020, it won't be the fault of the Universe. You don't follow me, so you have no idea how often I've said it. The urge to impart meaning on random events in our lives runs deep. But just once, in response to the stock market dropping, say, 300 points in a day, I want to hear a Wall Street analyst say, We have no idea why. Birds like worms. Maybe this one discovered a worm hole, greatly shortening the trip. RE-POSTED: When Quantum Physics ruins food. until the math improves, and makes better decisions than any human - better known as Artificial Intelligence. But until then, feel free to call it Artificial Stupidity. The Planck Length would be the limit of precision. But even that has a dimension. Not that anyone asked, but You don't know - and you can never know - exactly how tall you are. When food goes bad. This week, Mars & Earth are as close to each other as we've seen in 20 years. Have a look - with its tipped axis and a cute little icecap. And, I double-checked, no canals. Thanks to my Princeton colleague Bob Vanderbei for sharing his stunning photo. FYI: The Universe is under no obligation to make sense to you. Here's why, if interested: It's not really your Birthday until somebody sings it to you - especially when their voice resonates with the harmony of the spheres. Thank you, @MichaelBuble. Geeky disco ball. Twitterverse: Thanks for all the birthday well-wishes. Today, October 5, 2020, I don't feel a day over 62. Sixty-two sides, comprised of regular polygons. And yes, it has a name: rhombicosidodecahedron Dear Science Deniers, (Anti-vaxers, anti-maskers, climate hoaxers, flat-Earthers, etc) You found one another & communicate via stupefyingly advanced technologies that pivot on the discoveries of scientists. Just thought I'd remind you of that fact. Sincerely, Your Smart Phone From the Photo Archives... I've never owned a badass motorcycle. But if I did, this is how I would pose on it. Science is hard. I'm just saying. Yup. It's time-tested. It's a concept long recited in the skeptics community. You can't use reason to convince anyone out of an argument that they didn't use reason to get into. I see what you did there... What color is a Red Apple? Yup. Thanks for this comment. The quip refrences experimentally verified objective truths in the physical world. Those don't change. See this, if you have a moment: 39-Down Something that's true whether or not you believe in it Attractive indeed. But what??? it still has Pluto. FYI: It doesn't have Earth's Moon, yet Earth's Moon is bigger than Pluto. I'm just saying. What he wields are powerful elements psychic ability, including ESP (see his Wiki page). But if you look up ESP, it includes clairvoyance. I have no problems if you want to change the definition. Words are fluid in time. I choose words based on how widely they are understood. You mean it's a Dictionary definition. The Oxford Dictionary explicitly mentions clairvoyance, which is a commonly invoked meaning of the term. Two words I've never before used in the same sentence: This is how you make a chocolate telescope. Sept 22, 2020 - 9:31 AM ET Happy September Equinox to all residents of Planet Earth. How strongly you feel about an issue is not itself a measure of the strength of your argument. Your definition of psychic is not standard: Sometimes I wonder if people who aggressively seek political power are precisely those who should not be entrusted to wield it. Dylan's got it. Entirely. More on suction, if interested: Tennis bad-boy-champ @NickKyrgios explains to me, @mythreeleftfeet, and @chucknicecomic why he ignores sports data, analysis, and even fitness, just so he can do things his own way. Thanks. An important correction that many people caught. A risk of simply retweeting content. How much do you (want to) know about Earth's magnetic field? Recording a @StarTalklRadio Cosmic Queries on it this week! Stay tuned. And thanks for uour interest. Abraham Lincoln thought deeply about the role of science in enlightened governance. Thanks for the correction. I've been doing more re-tweeting lately. (Fun ones espcially.) Now I see the risks of that. -Neil Yup. The centrifugal force simualtes it. But you only need the thrusters to set it rotating. After which, it stays that way. Puddles aren't just for kids to jump in. All true. But entirely irrelevant to my tweet, which references the collision of the Milky Way with Andromeda and the death of our Sun. Nineteen years and two months ago... A snapshot of my backyard in lower Manhattan. Foreground: my young daughter plays with the fountain. Background: World Trade Center No.2. You already believe that something came from nothing. Where did the Creator come from? In five billion years, our Milky Way begins to collide with the Andromeda galaxy. But not to worry. The Sun burns Earth to a crisp long before then. Sometimes, we are all on a need-to-know basis. Live long and prosper. Both. My bad. I should have said, no space ship currently exists to accomplish that task. As has been the case for 45 years. Thanks for that reminder. Will do, Sir. If I were ever abducted by aliens, the first thing I'd ask is whether they came from a planet where fellow aliens also deny science. Gigantic, colliding, black holes. Or, things that got bump in the night. My friend and colleague Phil Plait, a.k.a. @TheBadAstronomer writes about it here. Nice. Billions & Billions? How many stars can you see at night with the unaided eye? #WednesdayThoughts If you removed all the veins, arteries, & capillaries from your body, and tied them end to end, you would die. Yuuuup. This may help a little. Sometimes I wonder if my cork-screws do this when I'm not looking. No panels here. And so no panel influence. But if intersted, I recount the whole Pluto saga here: Not to mention inchworms milestones pint-sized and video footage Fifty-Seven years ago today. The program for the March on Washington I'm not claiming metric sainthood here. The stack of leftover dollar bills just happeend to be a round number of kilometers. So I went there for this post. The follks in this video argue that analogies between money and the solar system are all bad. So how about this one: If you had 200-Billion dollars, you could spend $1,000 per minute over five lifetimes. Thanks for the YouTube link. The video specifically indicts solar system measures of money. Do you also think my Jeff Bezos tweet, as worded, was pointless and ineffective to my followers? Not that anybody asked, but laid end-to-end @JeffBezos' 200-Billion dollars can encircle Earth 180 times, then reach the Moon & back 30 times - and with what's left over, make a stack 10 kilometers high.￼ More than you ever cared to know about your skin's response to moving air. An oddly uncommon news headline: Psychic Wins Lottery - Again As any future scientist should. Ever look up at night and feel small? Don't. Instead feel large. Atoms in our bodies trace to the remnants of exploded stars. We are Stardust. We are alive in the universe. And the universe is alive within us. We call it science, but in the end, it's just unbridled curiosity. How much does Air weigh? Cloud Streets A phenomenon where the air convects in persistent cylinders, forming long, parallel lines of puffy clouds that can stretch all the way to the horizon. I wonder if fewer people would eat Rabbit Stew if instead it was called Bunny Rabbit Stew. Good one. Earth's surface has no center. Since the Universe has no center, you can't be it. Those are bootlegged photoshopped images of me. I have nothing to do with the product. But these are all legit: KInda feels like you didn't read the link, or perhaps only skimmed it. In any case, don't get distracted by Kelvin's use of absolute. The word is not common in science. It's simply a descriptive concept that holds true everywhere we look in the universe. The methods and tools of science are exquisitely conceived to uncover objective truths from Nature. Modern civilization exists becaue of these objective truths -- understandings of the universe that will not later be found false. Of possible interest: More than you ever cared to know about heat, temperature, and the ultimate in cold: Absolute Zero. August 11/12 - Tonight, while orbiting the Sun, Earth plows through the debris stream of Comet Swift-Tuttle. We annually punch through this train of particles that crosses Earth's orbit. Behold the Perseus Meteor Shower. Then you're using the wrong metric for who is smart. If you're always successful at bullshitting others it's because you don't hang around people who are smarter than you. Yup. Even harder to talk about. But perhaps it can become a motivating force for change. Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. But apparently, Dogs are sore losers when playing Connect-4. Basketball Bird imparting rotational force - a torque. Seesaw Bird doing gravity experiments Bulldog invoking Newtonian physics Possible Caption: Junior, go save that small brained mammal over there. Looks like he needs help. If I owned a farm, these are the Cows & Chickens I'd want. Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. A Bear with a keen sense of order, rights some of what is wrong in our world. Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. I wonder how many Bears pretend to be friendly before they eat you. Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. Yes, apparently, you can play Jenga with a Dog. Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. Innovative inchworm... Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. Interspecies assistance crossing a major street. Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. Pet monkey reads instructions before opening a thermos. Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. Problom-solving Raccoon... Any time we're impressed by what non-human animals do, it's simply because we previously underestimated their intelligence. What's even sadder, perhaps, is that life experience trained me to know that the photos would work in exactly the way they did. FYI: When my 88 yr old father suffered his first stroke, the hospital staff in Connecticut were quite indifferent to him - an old dying Black man. The next day I hung bedside photos of him lecturing & getting an honorary doctorate. He was thereafter treated with great respect. To assert conspiracy is to believe what you want when you are missing data to fully support what you want to believe. Volcanoes. Is the Yellowstone Supervolcano going to blow? Volcanologist @janinekrippner answers. Sure, as anyone who opens portals through spacetime should. But their aliens didn't. Most tweets are just thoughts of the day. But this one I've wondered since childhood - since learning of Base 10. Unfortunately, with the Flintstones, there's no hope they would count in computer-friendly hexadecimal (Base 16) because they have only three toes on each foot. Problem is, in the Flintstones they have only three toes. With four fingers on each hand, I always wondered whether Cartoon Characters would be good at counting in Base 8. NASA receives 4/10 of one percent of your tax dollar. Is that the never-ending huge budget you're referring to? Comet NEOWISE is now headed away from Earth - fading daily, until it disappears into the darkness of interplanetary space. Did you miss it this round? Not to worry. It returns in 6,700 years. : - ) Chief Scientist at @NASA, James Green, explains the #perseverance Rover, just launched for Mars. Thank you, but entirely unnecessary. Just pass it forward. Academic @Penn Psychologist @angeladuckw, author of the book Grit, suggests that raw talent may be overrated. If so, then what does it take to be a great athlete, or to be great at anything? @chucknicecomic, @mythreeleftfeet, and I search for answers. True, but irrelevant to the video. Me, administering a long-deserved noogie to Wil Wheaton's noggin. Yes. You will experience sunset about 1 second later for every 10 feet of elevation. You may have missed this tweet from a year ago. At the equator, yes. Can accomplish that with slower speeds at higher latitudes. Somebody didn't watch the whole video. Every sunset you've ever seen happened several minutes before you witnessed it. When the forces of the Universe align, there's no stopping them. Congratulations! JUST POSTED: Former head coach of @uscfootball and current head coach of the Seattle @Seahawks, @PeteCarroll, discusses strategies and tactics of how he nurtures athletic talent that he spots. The experiment works both ways. Using the unaided eye, you'd need to build something nearly 100 miles across on Earth to be seen and resolved from the Moon. And vice versa. Head Coach of the Seattle @Seahawks @PeteCarroll, reflects on identifying greatness in the career of his star quarterback @DangeRussWilson. Both Voyagers (1 & 2), both Pioneers (10 & 11) and the New Horizon mission are all leaving the solar system. The escape velocity depends on how far you are from the Sun, of course dropping the farther away you are. S. O. L. My bad. The Comet is exiting the inner Solar system. It will return in 7,000 years. Would have to be going much faster to exit the Solar System entirely. Comet NEOWISE through my telescope. Yes, it's still there. Currently exiting the solar system at 100,000 mph - tail first, of course, since comet tails always point away from the Sun. Nice clean shot. Next time, try to get the whole Big Dipper in there. A 50-mm lens should accomplish that. The comet will be smaller, but the picture will be more interesting. Astronomical truths about the length of days in the summertime. This might be what Humans look like to advanced Space Aliens when we argue with one another. There's more of us out there. Apparently, @JimmyFallon is an astrophysicist too! A force of nature unto himself, he lived and breathed social justice - as citizen, activist, & long-time Member of Congress. A reminder to those in power that our founding documents promise Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness - for all. John Lewis RIP: 1940-2020 Brief reflection on a COVID-19 Silver Lining. Pro skateboarder @JoeyBrezinski wants to know about reduced carbon footprints in a pre vs post COVID-19 world. @StarTalkSports x @Uninterrupted #AthletesAskNeil With the gender spectrum getting filled in daily, the future may look back at binary-gendered sports as a quaint relic. I can imagine sports, re-organized to compete similar hormone levels, for example, bypassing the entire question of gender. When scientsts don't understand something, we continue to apply methods and tools to achieve understanding. We confront mysteries in my field monthly, if not weekly. Only some of them make the news. Gaseous circles in the universe have always indicated a central source of energy, activating circular regions that surround them. We'll eventually figure this one out. Yes, my hands are steady. But that's not what really going on here. The iPhone 11 has a low lighting feature where it takes multiple short exposures, matches up the scenes, and adds them together for the final image. Meanwhile, earlier this evening... Comet NEOWISE, low in the sky, lurking below the Big Dipper. July 14 , 2020 An hour after sunset. Latitude: 41 degrees North. What's a sandwich to you? ...and other ponderables in conversation with @kevinlieber of @VsauceTwo ...says the person who hasn't read the book How do I know? The treatment is highly respectful of the skepticism you are expressing, which then precludes that reaction entirely. Low in the northwest sky during Dusk, everywhere in the world. Nice. Being so far north - all of England sits farther north than the northernmost part of Maine - you folks in the UK enjoy long twilights. Ideal for beautiful shots of the Comet hovering above the horizon. Just to be clear. Manhattanhenge is for New Yorkers. The Comet is for all residents of the Solar System. If the skies remain clear over New York City this evening (July 12), after watching Manhattanhenge in the northwest, hang out a little longer and look for Comet NEOWISE in the dusk of twilight. Hayden's own Joe Rao Tells all: Twice a year, the setting Sun renders NYC's urban canyons aglow in fiery light. Crowds gather. Traffic stalls. Behold Manhattanhenge. Tonight, July 12. At a cross street near you. Beginning 8:10pm. ET. I see what you did there. Thanks. But it's easy to be mind-blowing when that's the nature of the material I'm writing about. We discover hundreds of Comets each year. Occasionally a bright one comes along. This week, look northwest, low in the sky at dusk for Comet NEOWISE (@c2020f3) Seen a few days ago, rising above Earth, from the orbiting International @Space_Station. European Colonial History in six words: Is that yours? It's mine now. From the Photo Archives In Boston, filming an episode on the heritability of physical traits, with @Harvard's @sapinker & @geochurch. One of the two, genetics indicated, has high athletic potential - which garnered a chuckle. More than you ever cared to know about which direction the Sun rises. From the Dad-Joke Vault Q: What do you call embryotic Space Aliens? A: Eggstra-terrestrials. Agreed. But that's precisely why I used the term life expectancy, which averages all that out, rather than the term physiologial development. A lost opportunity. They should have connected a Flux Capacitor When contemplating the cosmos, we don't always know all that we don't know. So for me, I yearn for the questions I don't yet know to ask. Meanwhile, back at Columbia Glacier, Alaska After departing land, a chunk of flowing glacial ice had been forced underwater -- until this moment. It then broke loose, and bobbed up, seeking buoyant equilibrium as a free-floating iceberg. Stuff You Thought You Knew What it means to us all when Mercury is in Retrograde If you instead leave the pennies for a homeless person, then you've cut out the middleman. p.s. Welcome to Twitter. Mostly a cesspool of anger, but occasionally a platform of enlightened communication. And there I was, all this time, thinking Cleveland was voiced by a space alien. If it's any consolation, the thermodynamics of the situation tells us the longer it takes to cook something, the longer the food stays hot after your remove it from the heat. For example, compare baked potato and toast. My favorite Painting. Worked for me. Good one. Nicely geeky. Sure. But my statement is meant to imply that if you are gone for a day, they experience it as a week. I think you mean anamorphous. And I agree, that would make a cool visual effect upon takeoff and landing. All the asteroids, planets, their moons and an entire class of comets orbit the Sun in a roughly flat plane. So yes, to visit them we go left or right (or straight). But not up or down. Google Oort Cloud to learn what's above and below us. Curious about that canine with whom I was ROTFL? A co-woorker's Support Dog named Elenasto, which means Stardust in Quenyan Elvish. Yup. That's why the tweet uses the word Maybe twice. Ever notice how enthusiastic your dog can be? In life expectancy, a single day for humans corresponds to a week for dogs. Maybe they know this. And maybe that's why they make every day count. Sure. That could happen. On Earth, sight and locomotion both developed along several different evolutionary paths. But similar capability is not synonymous with somilar appearance. : - ) Note to HOLLYWOOD: No reason to think space aliens would have the same array of senses - sight, hearing, taste, touch, smell - as humans. They could have more senses than we do. Or all their senses could be completely different from ours. Note to HOLLYWOOD: A space alien with no DNA in common with life on Earth should look more different from life on Earth than **any** two life forms on Earth look from each other. Yes, if you averaged it. But may stars have no planets and many stars have many planets. You'd be inexcusably egocentric to suggest that Earth was the only place in the observable Universe with life -- among the hundred-billion galaxies, each containing a hundred-billion stars orbited by a hundred-billion planets. Yet how terrifyingly lonely it would be, if true. I don't know what it is for sure. Which makes it Unidentified. And from the video, it's clearly a Flying Object. So it's just a UFO. A @StarTalkRadio explainer video on Nothing. Offered for all those who are curious. This is how you do that. Curiosity in children -- something to be cherished. Actually the only down on Earth is towards its center. So Aussies are Down Under only to Northern chauvinists I prefer no labels at all. Congratulations for using your wit and senses to realize when others are clueless. That's the beginnings of science literacy. Saturday, June 20, 2020 Happy Winter Solstice to the 15% of all humans and 100% of free Penguins who live down under. If you ask us if we are space aliens, we will deny it. How to test for whether your child is from another planet. Odd for you to presume what I know or don't know. I've listened to every word of the album, including those final words of the title track. And, of course, they are also wrong. But I had no tweet room left to include nor is it all dark. A resonance in the laws of orbital physics leaves the Moon showing only one face to Earth. Yet over a month, all sides receive sunlight. So there's a Near Side. There's a Far Side. But @PinkFloyd take note: there's no Dark Side. Rotating Moon from deep space That's a common one. But I can imagine a future where all meat protein and vitamins are lab-grown, and planet eaters are seen as barbarians for killing defenseless life forms that can't run away. Odd to presume how much I think about anything. I suspect that as gender binarity is dissolved, the future of sports will be competitions among people with comparative hormone levels. Also, there's a dozen sports now that are needlessly segregated. TableTennis Archery Curling... I think about that all the time. All I can come up with is gender-segregated sports. It's not that Aunt Jemima was a symbol of a racist past, she was the very embodiment of a racist past. She will not be missed by anyone who knew that. What you are missing is that most students who have straight A's actually don't get in. For example, they reject up to 3/4 of all Valedictorians who apply. Thanks for listening. I had average grades but I was not an average student. Most of what I achieved was not what accrues to one's GPA. Like having conversations with humanoid machines? A chat with @RealSophiaRobot about her Artificial Intelligence and AI's role in Public Health. We're at a particularly low activity point in the Sun's 11-year sunspot cycle. Dangerous CMEs are therefore highly unlikely at this time. Gotta agree. The extinct, badass dinosaurs surely sounded like this. And if they didn't then they should've. My Abs look just like his, except mine sit beneath four inches of middle-aged man-belly fat. sure did... Maybe we can all use a little bit of this right now. I, like many, have a weakness for crispy potatoes. I'm good with Kettle brand, and any others that ae extra crispy. A highly innovative invocation of acoustic physics. FYI: I hardly ever retweet. Only if I think it will make you smile - because it made me smile - in a time when smiles are understandably rare, or possibly left unseen behind our COVID masks. Good stuff. Thanks. Depends on your speed and your location on Earth. At 30-&gt;40 degrees latitude, about 800 mph would be sufficient to freeze the Sun on the horizon, chasing it at exactly the rate it's setting from you. Reflections on the Color of My Skin Narrated, for those who prefer it that way. Precisely. Indeed. A point not often realized when people recount the history of science. FYI: We credit Copernicus for getting the heliocentric view of the work right, but his orbits were all wrong -- they were circles and not ellipses, giving bad answers. The basic idea was good, but needed further modification. Something common in science. Reflections On the Color of My Skin The relevant statistics are in embedded links throughout the commentary. Risk of death is not the same thing as the risk of an encounter with the Police. And it's the risk of encounter with police that's higher, leading to disproportionately more deaths. Of course. And Hofstader's other books a well. Good stuff there. FYI: There's a dozen websites embedded in hyperlinks within the commentary, for every place where I cite data. Perhaps you missed them. Reflections on the Color of my Skin Please join me in welcoming @LordMartinRees to Twitter, the Astronomer Royal of the UK and long-time colleague & friend. He's a brilliant astrophysicist whose deep perspectives on all things I continue to admire. Boxer @CamFAwesome wants better teachers, and wonders how we can get them. By cloning them, of course. #AthletesAskNeil Congratulations @SpaceX on a successful launch. Godspeed @Astro_Doug and @AstroBehnken in their Crew Dragon Capsule Amid the turbulence of a pandemic & racedemic, I offer this reflection on what Earth looks like from space, as only an Apollo astronaut can tell it. Twice a year, the setting Sun renders New York City's urban canyons aglow in fiery light. Crowds gather. Traffic stalls. Behold #Manhattanhenge. Tonight: May 30, 2020, Beginning 8pm At a cross-street near you. Nice. It's on posters too, that I've seen. p.s. FYI: El Dorado, my favorite pinball machine. Requiring more skill than most. No. But good question. Pure energy, in high enough concentration, spontaneously makes matter-antimatter particle pairs. Yup. The one-and-only @LindseyVonn asked me about astrology. I gave her a succinct answer. #AthletesAskNeil @StarTalkSports x @Uninterrupted Good Luck to @elonmusk and the @SpaceX crew. Though it's rocket science, rocket launches can still use a little bit of luck. Agreed. It doesn't work for textured meanings within sentences. : - ) A picture is worth a thousand words, except for pictures of words that contain between 1 & 999 words. Yeah, I went there. The science of @RickandMorty. Prompted by @matpatgt of The Film Theorists, I offer my take on the cartoon's use of dark matter & anti-matter Not especially hard. The number on the right is first the difference, then sum, of the numbers on the left. But in any case, I often wish Mensa people would spend more time solving world problems than puzzle problems. I dream of a world where truth shapes people's politics, rather politics shaping what people think is true. No vectors in E=mc2. Energy has no direction. Neither does the square of a velocity. But momentum does. So P = mv is a vector. With P and v in the same direction, as written. The recurring phrase, now excised from most modern cuts of old films was Free White and 21. A boast that the person was Beholden to no one. An offensive script line that was nonetheless true and accurate. Here's a compilation: Shhh. Don't tell anybody. I want to live in a world where a Chicken can cross the road without anybody questioning its motives. We're all in on that 5%. All the laws of physics and chemistry. : - ) Several Spreadable: Saint Agur Bleu Really Spreadable: Boursin Firm: Comte Really Firm: Aged Gouda Add up all we know about matter & energy and it accounts for less than 5% of what drives the Universe. What we call Dark Matter & Dark Energy comprise the rest, yet we know nothing of them, other than they exist, leaving the astrophysicist delightfully befuddled, for now. When the rules went into effect in 2006, Pluto was demoted to Dwarf planet, but Ceres was **promoted** from Asteroid to Dwarf Planet, but still resides in the Asteroid Belt. No, silly. Only if we had walked into a bar. What's the biggest difference between @MichaelPhelps in a swimming pool and the rest of is? Is it mind or muscle? I asked @Stanford geneticist Dr. Stuart Kim. I don't think so - they're just a little longer because they can be -- but you can easily judge for yourself. Reviewing my old Tweets reminds me of when the internet was a place to have fun with images & information, rather than a platform of tribalized attacks on messages & messengers. e.g. The comments on this Tweet from 2013 are delightful Some of the molecules in every glass of water you drink have passed though the kidneys of Jesus. and other mind-blowing facts about large numbers, on @StarTalkRadio A virus walks into a bar and orders a drink. The bartenders respond, Sorry, we don't serve viruses. So the virus jumps across the counter, invades their DNA, and turns them into bartenders who do. (Geeky Virus joke, told to me years ago by @sciencecomedian) Welcome to twitter. At its worst, a cesspool of warring opinions. At its best, the highest expressions of care and concern for humanity. The Universe brims with mysteries. Dogs that we have bred (genetically engineered) to not shed, all require periodic haircuts and grooming. Poodles, Shih Tzus, and Yorkshire Terriers, are common examples. The gravity of dark matter will bend the path of light, but will otherwise not interact with light at all. A mystery of the universe. Ninety years old - Married 64 years - Raised three children. The @StarTalkRadio #MothersDay interview with my Mom, sharing stories from her life, along with tools & tactics on how she raised me. No. But the lyrics are correct enough for their purpose. No complaints here. Brief reflections on COVID19, and society's reaction to it, seen through the lens of a scientist -- via @StarTalkRadio **** Thank You **** From what I hear, there's still laws on the books in three states that prevent this. Plus, I can't help it if you read my tweets late. Revenge of the fifth No alarms necessary. The Force compelled me to do so. May the 4th be with you. Silly me. Mitch Hedberg figured out the real problem with Big Foot. More photos are taken **each day** and posted to the internet than were taken during the first 100 years of photography. And the best image of Big Foot is from 50 years ago, or fuzzy in the brush? Don't try this at home. At a rate of one number per second, it would take you 31 years to count to a Billion. Just to freshen your memory of how big a billion is A billion smart phones -- about the size printed photos used to be - laid end-to-end, will stretch four times around Earth. Billions and billions of full-color, high-resolution images & videos are uploaded to the Internet every day. If your best evidence for Aliens visiting from another galaxy is monochromatic low-resolution, fuzzy video taken by the USNavy, then there's more work to be done here. yeah. I think I needed a comma between the too and the well. And perhaps a hyphen connecting the well and the up. Thanks. Frankly, I too well up every time I re-watch that episode. The beginning of the end of Sports Stadiums? In this @StarTalkSports snippet, @BenBrillat, Chief Technology Architect for @IBMServices offers some insights from #Esports. They do in movies, but apparently the real ones are shy, and show up only in fuzzy Navy videos even though a billion hi-res photos and videos are uploaded to the internet daily. Odd you ask me a question yet don't follow me. Not a problem. It's just unusual. This interview contains all my thoughts on the Navy Video, which, by the way, was page-1 headlines two years ago, and viewed by 900,000 people: yuuup. That's gotta be why. No. That one is, I think, Cosmos: A SpaceTime Odyssey (2014) Thanks. But I think I'm covered in my Tweet with the two words, ..tend to.. When they're not beaming down, Space Aliens tend to disembark via ramp rather than stairs. Evidence they were into handicap-accessible design long before we figured it out. 13 (in 1980) + 13 (in 2014) + 13 (in 2020) = 39 Episodes! A belated happy birthday to you. 16x around the Sun. That's 9.3 billion miles travelled. Congratulations! Late to the party here. But yes, that book was indeed signed by me. Thanks for visiting. And if you are still a Pluto fan, get over it! Why is the sky blue? p.s. if you like the video, then just hit the subscribe button on the YouTube channel. That way, I don't have to keep telling you about these postings. Thanks for being on alert. The third time actually. First in 2014 then in 2017. I will recycle a Tweet, but only after I acquire an additional million followers. Evidence that Humans are smarter than Cats: We don't chase Laser dots on the carpet. Nor do we fear Vacuum Cleaners. Basic Cosmology: In the Multiverse, there could exist one Universe where everything @FoxNews reports is true, and a different Universe where everything @MSNBC reports is true. But there is no Universe in which everything they both report is true. We have our own Captain Marvel. And she has good reason to be a Mad Scientist. Commentary by colleague & @NASA climate scientist @DrKateMarvel Forgot all about that one. But actually he's wearing a tank top. I'm a little late to the party, but glad you survived the bullying, and emerged with some astrophysics, to keep you looking up. Sure, I'll give you that. Perhaps one in ten disaster films. I Am Legend, too. Your birthday puts you in the same spot in Earth's orbit relative to the Sun. And the hospital puts you in the same spot on Earth' surface. In Physics lingo that's zero displacement, forcing your average velocity through life to be zero, no matter how fast you ever travelled. Read more carefully. The tweet explicitly says: on Earth... ..and I would later learn, alerted by a Spaniard: Miguel de Cervantes. You know it's true Every disaster movie begins with a scientist being ignored. On COVID19 Misinformation: A reminder from (scientifically literate) @SethMacFarlane that disagreements can be civil, especially with powerful people like @Oprah, yet don't always need to end with one person cancelling the other. Notice that star, high in twilight skies after sunset? It's planet Venus. Meanwhile, the newly-birthed thin crescent Moon arrives - the start of Ramadan on the Islamic calendar. For the next few days, the Moon will sashay past Venus. The pair, an enduring symbol of the religion. hence the reference on Earth. Geeky Physics Fact: If you die on your Birthday in the same hospital you were born, then your Average Velocity through life on Earth was zero. Thanks for that. I will add him next time. Happy Birthday+Deathday William Shakespeare Born: April 23, 1564 Died: April 23, 1616 A contemporary of Johannes Kepler, Tycho Brahe, Francis Bacon, & Galileo Lord what fools these mortals be. A Midsummer Night's Dream - William Shakespeare While appreciating Earth, pause to notice Venus, sitting bright in twilight skies after sunset. Our nearest neighbor and near-twin to Earth in size & gravity, Venus labors under a runaway CO2 greenhouse effect, where temperatures are hot enough to liquefy lead. I'm just sayin'. You couldn't find my original Tweet? In it, no gender was assigned. You're alive as long as learning never stops. Many have died, well before old age, for want of something new to learn. Want more? Have at it : - ) In a free society, nothing should be compulsory. It should instead be our knowledge & wisdom that compels us to do it. An Earth Day contemplation A slo-mo campfire, for those who could use some warmth -- and a bit of light right now. And Finally If interested, my take on whether marijuana should be legalized. Via @chucknicecomic & @StarTalkRadio. Every now and then I wish for more purple in the world. But then I wonder, in such a world, whether purple would still be special to me. If Pinocchio said, My nose is about to grow! I wonder what would actually happen. I wonder if the first sentence uttered by the first computer to achieve consciousness will be, And, this too shall pass. If you remove all food & drink from your life that make life worth living, I wonder if you'll live forever. But you gotta admit, that's also what a horse would look like if it were dead. Still disturbed that if you type into the Bitly URL shortener you get the longer URL Good catch. My bad. Want More? One Two Three Infinity, By George Gamow. The single most influential book on my budding scientific mind. Doesn't that mean the horse is sick? We good there. From the Norse God Woden: Wodensday. The ISS travels 18,000 mph sideways in orbit around Earth. So are you, whether or not you roll down the window and jump out. Find a way to lose that Kinetic Energy and you'll fall straight down. Ignorning air resistance you'd hit the ground at 6,000mph, 5 minutes later. I wonder how it came to be: We sing the Alphabet Song and Twinkle Twinkle Little Star to exactly the same tune. Just a recursive thought: Every word used to define every word in a Dictionary is also defined in the same Dictionary. or you are joining late. I wonder if we will ever see a Truck Commercial on television narrated by an announcer with a high-pitch voice. I wonder if the past-tense of Break Dance is Broke Dance. I always wondered why the word phonetically isn't spelled phonetically. #420 Today, I wonder. The 2014 Cosmos: A SpaceTime Odyssey is there now - all 13 episodes. Possible Worlds won't stream until later in the year. : - ( Possibly on Hulu. TBD. You seek hope? Ann Druyan, EP, Director, & Co-writer of Cosmos: Possible Worlds is optimistic about the future of Civilization. And it shows in the two final Episodes. Airing together on the @NatGeoChannel, Mon 8-10pm, & 170 countries around the world in the days that follow. My bad. Sure. Can use Mars & Saturn too. In any combination. FYI: The Moon moves its own diameter every hour against the background sky. So a nice smiley face alignment would be good for no more than one or two time-zones before having no face at all. If a predatory enemy to our species can't unite everyone on Earth to fight it, I'm left wondering what hope remains for Civilization. My records don't agree with this prediction. : - ( In fact they place the Moon & Venus on opposite sides of the Sun on the sky for that day - Moon in the early morning before sunrise. Venus in the early evening after sunset. Actually, several million light years - Galaxies FYI: 1 ly = 5.8 trillion miles. What does Shakespeare have in common with @WWE? Professional Wrestler @XavierWoodsPhD (AKA Austin Creed) makes the case to me, @chucknicecomic, and @mythreeleftfeet on @StarTalkSports. Via @TeaLeoni... Two examples of deeply flawed logic: You don't have dandruff. So why do you use dandruff shampoo? We don't have many cases of COVID-19. So why should we keep our State closed? Explore Quantum Entanglement with @StarTalkRadio It's wild. It's wacky. It's Quantum Physics. With @chucknicecomic & @JannaLevin - in the Coronaverse Yuuuup. I've never wanted or owned a sports car. But if I did, this is how I would lean on it. A true fact for any wormhole through which you travel. That's clearly the best application for it. Not me sitting two feet from the lamp switch. Nailed it. Thanks, dude. I must confess. Would have indeed been more impressive had the Lamp been far out of reach. Mind over Matter My brain's Beta Waves turned on a lamp, via an electromagnetic Bluetooth relay, invented by Trent Johnson, an AV-tech I met in Asheville, North Carolina after a public talk I delivered there. Nothing stopping you, other than its mnemonic illegibility. I guess you haven't met Roy yet? ROY G. BIV Red-Orange-Yellow-Green-Blue Indigo-Violet These images, a bit odd in their day, look completely normal now in the COVID-19 Zoomiverse. Perhaps if one knew my writings, speeches, talks, and general personality (manifest on my @StarTalkRadio shows) one would know how false and inconceivable that exchange is. To grab it from the internet, believe it, and base judgment on it, is a form of cancer in social media. What's the single most annoying thing I've ever done? I'm especially curious because you feel this way yet you don't follow me. So there's the chance that if you read my tweets regularly, I'll annoy you more - or possibly annoy you less. Not if we never shed it. It's just the organism, rather than temporary shelter in a hostile environment. When you think about it, an Egg is a just Spacesuit for an Embryo. Let's Make America Smart Again Average Daily Death Rate A stunning collection of plots and statistics on the worldwide spread of the Coronavirus. For calculus fans (and even for calculus haters) the area under each curve is the cumulative total deaths. If interested, the source of that (dynamic) bar-chart for reported COVID-19 cases around the world. @BBCWorld using data compiled by @JohnsHopkinsSPH It's not always good for America to be Number One in all things. Oooookay. Then he'll thoroughly enjoy video of runny solar flares spewing forth from those spots. Moon phase looks legit for the date, but shadows don't. Sun-Moon geometry requires all shadows to be perpendicular to the terminator, the day/night boundary on the Moon. So the video fabricators got that wrong. Similar mistake appears in the film Ad-Astra: Yeah. I'll own it. The un-verse No. That the bigger thing is **not** Super. Knowing how to think, empowers you far beyond others who know only what to think. The unverse brims with mysteries. Thanks. But there's vastly more content in that curated set of videos than in any set of video lectures I have recorded. I hear you. So here's more than a dozen hours of free, curated, long-form content. Seriously. Yup. Fuzzy. And upside down! You must be south of the equator - or you were otherwise upside down when you took the photo. Some moons have sausage features. Others, pepperoni. But they all look like they're made of cheese. Nice, but surely accomplished with a zoom or telephoto lens. At least 200mm. Any full moon looks good that way. Photograph it with an ordinary lens and it impresses nobody. Where did the SuperMoon go? I ate it with @chucknicecomic. Ever look up at night and feel small? Don't. Instead feel large. Atoms in our body trace to remnants of exploded stars. We are Stardust. We are alive in the universe, and the universe is alive within us. RIP Margaret Burbidge (1919-2020) Co-discoverer of Stellar Nucleosynthesis. Monthly Lunar perigee varies by about 3% on the year. The distance you quote, which the Moon reaches in a few minutes (at 2:08PM ET) is the shortest in 2020, but Feburary 2019 beat it and December 2021 will do so too. Old school hand-drawn notes. I like it. -Neil Peek at the Math? Not quite Tribbles, but with unlimited access to food and no predators, rabbits can increase their population by as much as 30% per month - a factor of 1.3. Raise that 1.3 to the power of how many months you want to project forward. Behold exponential growth. If it's true, it doesn't matter who said it. If viruses were macroscopic and cute Rabbit Island Okunoshima Japan. Access to each other. All the food they want. No predators. That's about it. **Exponential Leporidae** Left unchecked, 1,000 rabbits in 5 years, become 7-billion, the human population of the World. After 15 years, a land-ocean of rabbits fills to one-kilometer depth across all of Earth's continents. Viruses can reproduce waaaay faster than Rabbits. Agreed. But you probably mean Robert Hooke, rather than T.J. Hooker. It's large and gnarly. And nobody eats the apples. But it's Flower of Kent, if you're interested in the variety. Yup. In his back yard in Lincolnshire, England. It's still there. See my earlier Tweets for a photo. I pause to salute First Responders and Medical Professionals who daily interpose themselves between the rest of us and danger, disaster, & disease. No doubt, Medieval folk knew more than we give them credit for. But I maintain that compared with today, or any time in the era of modern science, they lived in profound ignorance of Nature. If knowing little or nothing about Tides-Storms-Tsunamis-Volcanos-Earthquakes-Climate-Evolution-Physiology-Vision-Cells-Viruses-Bacteria-Microbes-Nutrition-Fossils-Extinction-Light-Gravity-Atoms-Elementary Particles, means to you knowing a thing or two about Nature, then okay. Disaster A prescientific word meaning Bad Star from a time of profound ignorance of nature, when misfortune was commonly blamed on cosmic events. Would be true of a killer asteroid. But control of a killer virus? The fault is not in our stars but in ourselves. Droning on now means something completely different. Follow @DroneRaceLeague champion @nurkfpv on a fast tour my Department in this clip from @StarTalkSports. Just spitballing here, but maybe snakes don't have armpits because they don't have arms. In English, fishes is a double plural - referencing multiple varieties of multiple fish. Do intelligent aliens populate the Galaxy? Do fishes show up in a cup of water randomly drawn from the Ocean? That's how little we've searched. A topic briefly explored with SETI's @jilltarter, @SethShostak, and with @michaelianblack Yes. Movies add ten pounds. Comics subtract ten pounds. Not me on instagram. I tend to be less profound in that medium. Posting mostly pretty pictures. Just look for the blue verified check mark. In 1991 Marvel introduced a Thor's Hammer trading card declaring Mjölnir to be made of the Asgardian metal Uru, weighing 42.3 lbs - but they didn't specify where in the universe. That weight on the Mars moon Deimos, for example, corresponds to 140,000 pounds on Earth. As a scientist, I lean Avengers universe, if only because many of their superheroes started as scientists, or derive their powers from authentically fictional (rather than fantastically magical) science concepts. Not that anybody asked, but Superman's Krypton home star system is LHS-2520, an actual red dwarf star in the southern constellation of Corvus, The Crow. But also, a Crow is the Mascot of Smallville High. Don't mean to brag, but Superman once visited my office at the Hayden Planetarium in Metropolis. When I met him, he was very nice to me and my staff. (Action Comics, Vol 2. No.14) If Bruce Banner retains his original mass when he expands to become the Hulk, then his body must become less dense. If so, then in his Hulked state, he'd have the density of a champagne cork. I'm just sayin'. But it's still a cool math chart. Seems to me, if Thor is a god, with godlike powers, then he doesn't really need big muscles. After much reflection on this matter, I've concluded that among superheroes with no superpowers, Ironman beats Batman in a cage match, but Bruce Wayne beats Tony Stark. And Black Widow beats everyone. Some accumulated comic book reflections follow, if anybody's interested You are one of only 39 accounts that I follow. But Barack Obama follows 600,000 people. If who follows you is all that mattered then it could pose problems. So maybe it's the risk of impersonator accounts that matters. For which you qualify. Congratulations. Most would agree that the peel is part of the Blueberry itself. And the space between the Berries, relative to the size of the Berries is not a variable but a constant. That's why this works. True for all self-similar shapes. When Isaac Newton stayed at home to avoid the 1665 plague, he discovered the laws of gravity, optics, and he invented calculus. It's rumored that there was a strict No TV rule in his household. To hit the Sun would require rockets that subtracted away Earth's 67,000 mi/hr orbital velocity upon launch. That's nearly 3x faster than the Moon voyages. You'd have to really hate this waste to want to do this. We can put a man on the Moon, but we can't cure the coronavirus. No, wait. Sorry. Right now we actually can't put anybody on the Moon. And haven't been able to do so for 45 years. If the container is much larger than the size of your blueberries, then the net volume occupied by blueberries will be similar, no matter their size. If you must know: The word parsec is a contraction of parallax-second, the distance a star would be from the Sun if one half of its parallax angle subtended one second of arc. Ignoring the Kessel Run abomination in Star Wars, a Parsec is an obscure unit of distance in classical astronomy equal to 3.26 light years. A megaparsec is a million of these. So for every megaparsec, the universe is expanding an additional 70 km/sec - the famous Hubble Constant. Nothing to tweet today, except for all those who wanted more space, the Universe continues to expand at about 70 kilometers per second, per Megaparsec. A stunning thin crescent Moon this eve, low in the twilight western sky. Planet Venus? There too, to see. Above the Moon, and high. March 26 - Happy Birthday @RichardDawkins Got 80 mins? (Of course you do. We're all on Covid-19 lockdown) A wide-reaching, heart-to-heart conversation. On logic versus emotion. On religion, atheism, & politics. And on how to educate obstinate people. We finally understand how Agent Smith felt about us in The Matrix: Yuuup. A cosmic ballet, choreographed by the forces of gravity. March 26 - Walk this Way Happy Birthday @IAmStevenT. Was fun chillin' with you in 2016, back stage at the Late Show, fielding your cosmic queries. Good one. The Kinetic Energy of a Baseball pitch. (Recorded Summer 2019) Earth is smooooth. The Coronavirus basics. FYI: In each of my Bill Maher appearances he also featured a Left and a Right-leaning guest. I'm there to offer perspectives that neither side might have considered in their arguments. Here's a good compilation. Tell me where you object the most: An unfortunate diffraction spike from sunlight far off the frame, and which happened to align with Earth. An example of such a phenomenon is below. It happens in photography with any strong source of light. Yup. I hardly ever make political statements, so I don't know what you mean when you say you disagree with me on many things in politics. What's the single greatest thing we've disagree on? By my read of budgets, the NSF, the NIH, and the CDC count as little government. This month, the US stock market lost two trillion dollars in market-cap due to a problem that science R&D could have preemptively solved. That figure exceeds the sum of all funds ever received over all years since 1950 by the National Science Foundation, the NIH, and the CDC. I'm just sayin' Indeed. Free Bird **Live** is particularly moving. An anthem if there ever was one. I, too, welled up. Just a bit. Beethoven's 9th Symphony in the Coronaverse. A 3min 15sec segment from the fourth movement: Ode to Joy Video: Rotterdam Phil. Orch. Three. But don't tell anybody. Plus one with my knees bent, which just looked stupid. Hmm. From info on a 1991 Thor trading card, Mjölnir weighs only 42.3 lbs. So it doesn't contain much mass. And Earth's gravity has nothing to do with your inability to move it. So I must conclude that you can't budge the hammer in zero-G either. The SCIENTIFIC METHOD: Do whatever it takes ensure you do not fool yourself into thinking something is true that is actually false, or that something is false which is actually true. Stuck at home? Might as well do some physics. Q: If the surface coverage of Algae on a lake doubles daily, and a month later half the lake is green, how much longer must you wait for the **entire lake** to be covered with Algae? A: One Day Behold exponential growth The spread of the Coronavirus offers a persistent reminder of what it means for something (anything) to grow exponentially. Searching for a good argument that we might **not** be living in a Simulation? I've been searching too. And I've finally found one. I see what you did there. I reply to about a dozen Tweets a week. Sorry it's never (before this moment) been you. You can take me to the stake. You can set me on fire. But you can't make me lie about science! -Soviet Botanist Nikolai Vavilov, fighting the obstinate, anti-science Stalinist regime, 1939. Profiled in tonight's airing of Cosmos:Possible Worlds, Ep 4. on the @NatGeoChannel Scientists devote their lives to decoding the Operations of Nature, which are oblivious to your culture and politics. When legions of experts alert society of impending catastrophe, yet warnings go unheeded, with fatal consequences, I'm left weeping for the future of civilization I'm okay with two Pi-days in the year. And of course the slash between the 22 and the 7 makes a convenient dividing sign. 3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510582097494459230781640628620899862803482534211706798214808651328230664709384460955058223172535940812848111745028410270193852110555964462294895493038196442881097566593344612847564823378678316527120190914564856692346034861045432664 At home, Pie are round. In math, Pi are squared Pi to 32 decimal places. What it takes for all ten numerals to appear at least once: 3.14159265358979323846264338327950 Don't mean to brag, but I've been pi-lingual from way back. To be totally accurate... I was gifted the shirt during my last visit to SpaceX HQ. Hence my confusion that it differed from Musk's banner. Not Pi-fluent? Divide the Perimeter of any (flat) circle **of any size** by its own Diameter, you get the same number every time, represented by its very own Greek letter: Pi Useful in math, science, & engineering. Even appears in Einstein's Relativity. And in Geeky kitchens. March 14 (3.14) Happy Pi Day to all Pi-fans across the universe. observables are simply repeatable measurements that require no modeling or interpretation to establish. Isaac Newton's Woolsthorpe Manor Home, England, where he retreated to escape the 1665 Bubonic Plague. While there he discovered the law of gravity, which apply everywhere in the universe except, apparently, at his famous Flower-of-Kent apple tree, out back. More Geeky Chemistry Humor If you are not part of the Solution then you're part of the Precipitate. There's an extraordinary amount of city lights beaming up to the clouds and reflecting back to the ground. Out at sea, far away from civilization, on an overcast night, you'd have a hard time seeing your hand in front of your face. Hi Jim. I think you want that Dinner Invitation to say 6pm EDT, not 6pm EST, since we are now on Daylight Saving Time. In the future, just say ET, which confuses no one. -Neil Geeky Chemistry Humor for Foodies: If Avogadro's Number is 6.022 x 10^23 (which equals one Mole) then 6.022 x 10^23 Avocados equals one Guaca-Mole. Seriously geeky joke alert Look away if you can't handle it. FYI: Will be posting fun, cheerful Tweets for a while, for those who need cheering up in the face of the Coronavirus. Yes. But we don't observe the 46 billion light years. It comes from a calculation based on the expansion rate of the universe and a cosmological model. For many applications we rely only on observables, which are not model-dependent. As humans, we like to think we're in charge of our own corner of the universe. But every now and then a microscopic entity reminds us that we are not. Welcome to the #Coronaverse. I see what you did there. Obscure Twitter fact - that joke yesterday went only to followers of Elon Musk. If you saw both it means you follow both of us. Would love to visit a Moon colony one day. But for me, a serious drawback is that the Restaurants will have no Atmosphere. Yup. My comment is Check the date of the article. I'm good with Moon colonies too. Hotels. Resorts. Interesting food. But a serious drawback for me is that the Restaurants will have no atmosphere. Elon, Can I assume you know that the Mars in your Occupy Mars Tweet is actually an image of the Full Moon during a lunar eclipse, but the image on my shirt is Mars for real. -Neil JUST POSTED: @StarTalkRadio's conversation with Astronaut @Cmdr_Hadfield about the risks of dying in space. Plus, he explains how a whole Guitar got onto the @Space_Station, with which he strummed & sang @DavidBowieReal's Space Oddity It's not soil. Mark Watney knew this. Hence his need to grow poop potatoes for his own survival. I'm all in. Even though you clearly just invented that rule, I can't really argue with it. The spread of the COVID-19 virus forms an excellent opportunity for Gen-Z to learn where the internet term Viral comes from. Preemptive self-strike: OK, Boomer Thanks for the the compliment. There are 118 known elements in the Periodic Table. The last time the @NYKnicks won the @NBA Basketball Championship there were only 105 Oops, wrong universe! The week of Monday, March 9th, of course. Premiere's tonight (Monday, March 6) in the USA. Goes around the world over the next six days. Some of my best friends -- actually all of my best friends -- are made of chemicals. Like an invasion of hostile space aliens, COVID-19 Is an enemy of the human species that won't negotiate. It cares not of your nationality, ideology, politics, or religion. This enemy of us all requires a global effort to combat, guided by science and not by magical thinking. Not that anybody asked, but Friday the 6th is exactly as rare as Friday the 13th, itself arriving seven days later. Agreed. While I'm quite sure the larger point was understood, to be precise, I should have said the island that contains England or simply Great Britain, though that's a name not widely understood by Americans relative to England or the UK. How tall are you? How much do you weigh? How long is the coastline of England? The exact answers to these questions can never be known. @StarTalkRadio's Measure for Pleasure... Approximately six million followers since then don't know that. But thanks in any case for the acute awareness of my posts. Curious that we spend more time congratulating people who have succeeded than encouraging people who have not. Credit to Pope Gregory's Jesuit priests for figuring out the Julian calendar needed updating - before telescopes, and while Christendom was sure the Sun orbited Earth. Fifty years later, Jesuits would prosecute Galileo for saying (and flaunting) that Earth orbits the Sun. By 1582, the Julian calendar, with a Leap Day every four years, had accumulated TEN extra days relative to Earth's orbit. So Pope Gregory jump-started his new and exquisitely accurate calendar by canceling 10 days that year, in which October 4 was followed by October 15. The 1582 Gregorian update to the Julian Calendar prescribes: The century years 1600 1700 1800 1900 & 2000 are all divisible by four, but 1700 1800 1900 were not leap years, yet 1600 & 2000 were. And 2400 will be. On February 29, 2000 most had no idea how rare that Leap Day was. The Leap Day alone overcorrects the calendar, requiring we remove a Leap Day every century year. But that under-corrects the calendar, requiring we put a Leap Day back in, every four centuries. Behold the Gregorian Calendar. The week is what's arbitrary. Months come from moonths. A bad approximation of the lunar cycle. Happy Birthday to the less than 0.07% of the human population born on a Leap Day. Water Towers, Jell-O Plunge, Money on Earth, Twin Vortices, Cosmic Lullaby, Mentos Fountain, The Known Universe, and a Slo-Mo Slinky. Nine must-see videos, in sequence, curated for their scientifically quirky but enlightening content. #MovieArithmetic A Bug's Life = The Magnificent Seven Yes, I said FINALLY... And finally... Yup. Can't argue that one. Good. I'll use that one day, if I can find it on my keyboard. Goodfellas should instead be called Badfellas **and** Bad Boys should instead be called Good Boys #MovieArithmetic The Martian = 1/4 Home Alone + 3/8 Castaway + 3/8 2001: A Space Odyssey #MovieArithmetic I Am Legend = 1/4 Walking Dead (TV) + 1/4 Quiet Earth + 1/2 Outbreak Sure. But that's not arithmetic It's set theory. #MovieArithmetic The Island = Gattaca + (a chase scene) Of course. Written by the same person who wrote Anna - with strongly overlapping storylines. So would be redundant to include both films. Plus I don't think Nikita (its current title) involves Russians. #MovieArithmetic Coming to America = Crocodile Dundee #MovieArithmetic Atomic Blonde = 1/3 Salt + 1/3 Red Sparrow + 1/3 Anna #MovieArithmetic Dr. Strange = 1/2 House (TV) + 1/4 Inception + 1/4 Harry Potter #MovieArithmetic Ad Astra = 1/2 2001: A Space Odyssey + 1/2 Apocalypse Now - (napalm in the morning) #MovieArithmetic The Matrix: Revolutions = The Matrix divided by Infinity #MovieArithmetic Whiplash = 1/2 Bird + 1/4 Officer and a Gentleman + 1/4 The Devil Wears Prada #MovieArithmetic Avatar = 2/3 Pocahontas + 1/3 The Matrix An offering of occasionally snarky #MovieArithmetic follows The film Ad Astra showed an excellent lunar landscape. Desolate. Without color. Bright in sunlight. Dark in shadows. Daytime starry skies. Except the length of shadows should have been much longer, extending in front of them, just before crossing to the Moon's darkened far side The film Ad Astra loves showing weightless astronauts. But space is not inherently weightless. If your engines fire constantly because you're in a hurry to get to the Moon or to Mars, then the acceleration creates artificial gravity - at the rear-end of the ship. Always. The film Ad Astra has Moon Pirates. Moon Pirates? What are they thinking? Buried treasures on the Moon? If the Pirates knew how expensive it is to be a Pirate in space, they might have just stayed on Earth and become investment bankers. In the film Ad Astra, they announce the Moon is almost full, yet a blue marble gibbous Earth hangs in the sky - a geometric impossibility. During full Moon, from the Moon, you would see only the un-illuminated nighttime side of Earth, or at most, a very thin crescent. My bad. Missed one. Liv Tyler did go to space in Jack Plotnick's low budget Space Station 76 (2014) Thanks! Missed that one. Liv Tyler plays an astronaut's earth-bound love interest in both Armageddon (1998) and Ad Astra (2019). Time for her to go into space her own damn self. Einstein's Relativity in the film Ad Astra - a 90 minute story time-dilated to two hours. Movie observations continue. Day four (of five)... A Physics interlude from the @StarTalkRadio archives. Certainty in science, worm holes, and causality with @ProfBrianCox, @JasonSilva & @MaeveInAmerica. The Latin Ad Astra, translated to the Stars, is not only a film title, it's also part of the State Motto of Kansas. Ad Astra per Aspera. Good one. In The Martian (2015) the Rocket gets rattled by a raging wind storm forcing them to launch from Mars without Mark Watney. But at only 1% that of Earth, the Martian atmosphere is so thin, 100 mph winds would feel like a gentle breeze. In the astronomically sprinkled urban love story The Sun Is Also A Star (2019) they got most of their science right. Some scenes were even filmed in the Hayden Planetarium itself. And you gotta love the #Manhattanhenge title scene. Movie observations continue. Day three.... Movie-makers are storytellers. And storytellers have been conveying human knowledge, wisdom, and insight since the beginning of things. So movies are not problems, they are pearls of how we learn. I wonder what anti-vaxers would say to a Corona Virus vaccine. And for those who never knew, the famous lines to that 1941 Big Band tune: Pardon me Boy, Is that the Chattanooga Choo Choo? / Track 29 / Boy you can give me a shine is progressively portrayed with an actual boy, but the lyric was written in reference to a full grown Black man. In the film Arrival (2016) nobody wondered whether the circular patterns drawn by the creature were backwards. The septopoid Alien drew them from the other side of a transparent glass wall. Hidden Figures reminds us that Computers & Calculators were smart women who knew math. In the early US Space Program, that math was orbital mechanics, led by Katherine Johnson 1918-2020. May the number of those inspired by her story be computationally incalculable. Godspeed. And of course, the film Gravity (2013) should instead have been named Zero Gravity. The film A Marriage Story (2019) should instead have been named A Divorce Story Even though @DisneyStudios's Frozen features talking snowmen and enchanted rolly-polly rocks, the Aurorae were authentically represented in the Nordic nighttime skies. In Frozen (2013) the Ice Harvesters in the opening scene pulled cubes from the water that floated as they should, with about 10% above the surface and 90% below. Just as in Icebergs. Not that anybody asked, but if Elsa from Frozen has a Human-sized Head then she has Horse-sized Eyeballs - occupying 4x the normal volume within her cranium. I'm just sayin'. It's Movie time. Long overdue. I've got backlog. And a reminder that 86% of you in a Twitter poll voted that you like when I talk science-smack about movies. 12% had no opinion. To the remaining 2%, please avert your eyes for the rest of the week Sometimes, all (eight) planets do align. congratulations! Hundreds of miles per hour. Thousands of feet in the air. We cross continents, oceans In a soft and cushioned chair. We're served lunch, dinner, & drink By a staff of those who care. Yet somehow our middle seat Will never, ever be fair. So that's what my name looks like in Cyrillic. Lot's in there. Enjoy! Will send along your sentiments to @JRichardGott & Michael Strauss. Please do so. Thanks for your interest. Also FYI - Qindeel has translated some of my books into Arabic. I wonder if I am alone, thinking that Airports need more Ice Cream vendors. Agreed. Need to cry at night, but don't want others to know? Look up to the sky. Your tears won't fall, and the stars will make you smile. If the shirt is pure red, illuminated by photons of pure green, your shirt would turn black. Yes. Some light is heavily absorbed by common glass - both Infrared & ultraviolet, for example. For visible light, not so much. For a glass mirror, when light passes into and out of the glass, bouncing off the reflective back, some of it gets absorbed by the mirror itself, increasing its temperature. That **very slightly** increases the mirror's mass. A Happy 63rd Birthday to @LeVarBurton. And to everybody else, I don't mean to brag, but LeVar actually read Good Night Moon to me. Or was it a dream? When Betelgeuse goes supernova, you will not need a Telescope. Sorcery. February 14, 2020. Thirty years ago today, after passing Neptune on its way out of the solar system, Voyager-1 snapped Earth's first selfie -- the famous Pale Blue Dot. Carl Sagan poignantly reflected on that image, with words that continue to resonate today. Four mysteries of the Universe that continue to elude top researchers: 1) What is the origin of Life? 2) What is the nature of Dark Matter? 3) What preceded the Big Bang? 4) What does the Refrigerator Light do after you close the door? My bad. He said he's good at making dinner. Not that he makes good dinners. Shouldn't that be for others to judge? Temperature is a measurement. And the app clearly doesn't display decimal degrees. So the reading is likely a rounded temperature between 0 and -0.49999... degrees. Anything lower would have rounded to -1 degrees, triggering no confusion at all. Keep a strong core, but ripen on your own schedule. Be the Avocado Last night @TheAcademy once again overlooked my performance. This time as Merlin, where I conduct science yet people think it's magic, in the acclaimed film Sharknado 6 -- based on a true story. Search :End of the World in 2020 Search humans breed with Aliens Search Earth is a donut I always knew the Universe was tasty. A Quantum outtake from my @StarTalkRadio interview with fourteen-time Pro Bowler, and physics-curious @TonyGonzalez88. Of possible interest to this thread The data, not the suppositions. The principle tenets of most religions are founded in faith. The principle tenets of Science are founded in repeatable experiments. To call Science a Religion is to understand neither Religion nor Science. Internet search engines have a way of affirming your hypothesis, no matter what you have hypothesized. Congratulations! That's a time-honored equation: Tenure plus Book equals Happy Person. Quite a find. Love that cube. Thanks for sharing. You're covered in it Some of what you never thought you needed to know on the subject of Surface Area. Happy Anniversary. And I've been JusListenin' ever since. Maybe one day the country will gather to hear the US President give an annual address titled Union of States in addition to (or rather than) State of the Union. The international response to contain and combat the Coronavirus has been swift. Imagine if the same resolve had been applied to fight the AIDS virus when it first appeared. You are taller when you wake up in the morning than after a long day of work. So the time of day matters. Yup. But never trust the elements themselves. They make up everything. MESMERIZING The Sun's roiling surface in higher resolution than ever before. Cells are roughly the size of Texas. Just-released video from the @NSF's Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope, Maui. Super Bowl Sunday was a bad day to be a Chicken in America. Actually, so is any other day. Americans eat **one-million** chickens per hour. While you're watching If the Football field were a timeline of the 14-billion year old Universe, with the Big Bang at one end, then at the other end, the width of a single blade of grass spans 30,000 years of human history, from Cro-Magnon to the present. Jet flyovers get me every time. Today is Ground Hog Day. Today is Ground Hog Day. Today is Ground Hog Day. Just enthusiasm. if she pushes against the water (swim), she will move forward while the water moves backwards . Yes. You will propel forward as long as you cast backwards anything you touch. Photo of Earth. Taken by Apollo 17, returning from the Moon, 1972. The @NFL should hold a second championship game - one that features only Vegetarian football players. Call it the Salad Bowl All good. We should all have the flames of physics raging within. It's well known: What flat-Earthers fear most is Sphere itself Okay, but that's Odd. Our laws come from the Constitution 1789, and not from the Declaration of independence. The Declaration is the only thing I know that bears that date. If interested, brief reflections on the Moon landing, Climate Change, God, & Artificial Intelligence. No. Back in the day, you didn't need permission to look up at the sky. Of possible interest: It will keep going until something stops it. First established in Newton's first law of motion. Nothing in the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity. - Martin Luther King Jr. 1963 After all these years, if are you still mnemonically possessed by Pluto, then this may help: My Very Educated Mother Just Served Us Nachos My Very Educated Mother Just Served Us Nachos. In life, if your shadow has become unreasonably large, it means the Sun has begun to set on you. If interested: A snippet of what's going on inside my head when I communicate with the public. To be a Genius is to be misunderstood. But to be misunderstood is not to be a Genius. Imagine how much more advanced society would be today if women, who comprise half the world's brain power, were socially & intellectually enfranchised from the beginning of civilization. Happy to invoke the universe in the service of your emotions. And in any case, Keep Looking Up. You Matter. Unless you multiply yourself by the speed of light squared. Then you Energy. Pick one: 1) A space-alien visiting Earth as a glowing plasma. 2) Ball Lightning. Sure, but instead you might say: the second-hand rotates at a rate of 6 degrees per second. The Minute-hand 6 degrees per minute. And the hour-hand 30 degrees per hour. Yuuuup. : - | Anything that changes can be a measure of time: Moons. Seasons. Earth's rotation. Vibrations of an atom. And of course, the hands of a clock. My college Steven Soter thought up the scene, and it's co-written with Ann Druyan. (Google them both) For half an avocado, don't peel it. Keep the pit in place, brush some lemon or lime juice on the exposed side, wrap in plastic, put back in the fridge. That will buy you a day or two. (Culinary secrets from the universe.) Climate versus Weather No genetic manipulation necessary. Refrigerate them just before they ripen, and they will stay ripe for days - in my experience. I don't know how long in the past that was, but it was at least 30 lbs ago. Overnight January 4 / 5 - Earth at Perihelion - The closest distance to the Sun in our annual elliptical (oval-shaped) orbit. If you see astrophysicists dancing in the streets, this could be why. Not to reveal my age, but back in my day, we drew Betelgeuse bright (at Orion's left armpit) relative to other stars in Orion. With stellar death comes cosmic rebirth as the spewed guts enrich nearby clouds with elements of life itself - carbon nitrogen oxygen - boosting chances that the next generation of star systems borne of these clouds will spawn planets such as Earth that cradle life such as ours. FYI: There is no cause to blame anything that happens to the star Betelgeuse on @realDonaldTrump You nailed it. Indeed, Betelgeuse may have already exploded - now a ghost, a dead star walking across the Galaxy - with the light-speed signal of its demise not yet arrived here on Earth. Betelgeuse is the star's common name - Arabic for Armpit of the Great One. Its catalog name is Alpha Orionis. Two thirds of all stars in the night sky with names have Arabic names. An homage to their stellar navigational skills 1000 years ago, during the Golden Age of Islam. Beginning late summer of 2019, the reddish star Betelgeuse has dropped from the 7th to the 21st brightest star in the nighttime sky. No need to panic, but If it exploded, the flash would be visible in the daytime, and rival the brightness of the Moon for weeks. Betelgeuse was born about 10 million years ago - long after Earth's big dinosaurs roamed the land. But the star is now near death. No need to panic, but stellar evolution models tell us that it will likely explode as a Supernova sometime within the next 100,000 years. Orion was drawn facing away from us for most illustrations of the classical period. The star Betelgeuse is so large, if you swapped it with the Sun, it would engulf the orbit of Mars and extend all the way through the asteroid belt. No need to panic, but at 700 light years, it's the closest star to the Sun that will end its life in a Supernova explosion. No need to panic, but the red supergiant star Betelgeuse (yes there is a star with that name), one of the brightest in the nighttime sky, marking the left armpit of the constellation Orion, is mysteriously dimming, having lost 60% of its brightness across the past six months. Animals - especially dogs - have always liked my books. Maybe she wants to read it too? I'm a fan of moderation, but only in moderation. If I had one question for Albert Einstein, I might just mess with his head and ask, What time does Grand Central Terminal arrive at the next train? FYI: I posted this two weeks ago. I'm intolerant of intolerance. All times I've been an ass were when my intent was not communicated successfully. Hanukah, a multi-day celebration, no? Such a reference would have greatly complicated the Tweet. And of course I'd be a bigger ass for omitting Jews altogether. Just an honest observation celebrating rare civility in the comment thread. Thanks for adding this calm and sage comment to my thread. Merry Christmas to all the Christians of the world. To everybody else, including the Muslims, Atheists, Hindus, Buddhists, Pagans, & Jews... ...Happy Wednesday. B.C. / A.D. Excellent. Or one could simply draw Rudolph antler-less Glowing noses may be a flying Reindeer thing. Santa knows Physics: Red light penetrates fog way better than blue light. That's why Bennie the blue-nosed Reindeer didn't get the gig. After extensive discussion and analysis, @Chrisdcomedy and I agree... If #AmazonEcho listens to you 24/7, it just might know if you've been bad or good. Consider also that @Amazon Prime delivers gifts to your door overnight, far and wide. CONCLUSION: @JeffBezos is Santa Claus Yes. Summer for FOX. Thanks for your interest. Cosmos: Possible Worlds PremierMarch 9, 2020 on the @NatGeoChannel Geoturka: If interested, last-minute gift ideas that I had something to do with... Yuuup. Thanks for jumping in there. I'm occasionally asked ( what's the worst science-violating movie ever. My answer was Disney's The Black Hole (1979) - until Armageddon (1998) came along, which violated more laws of physics (per minute) than any other film in the universe. Agreed, Luke was all-in, and fun to talk to. Happy December Solstice to all life forms on Earth. The Northern Hemisphere's longest night. The Southern Hemisphere's longest day. And for the equator, caught between, a day like any other. Yes. For several reasons. But I note that it may be the only scientifically plausible scene among all nine movies. Old school. I like it. Okay. Substitute nose for lips and we're back in business. You can kiss yourself in the mirror, but only on the lips. A cosmic congratulations to you. The Morning Report: Most of the Universe remains in tact, doing just fine. Earth, however, is f%*ked up. Impeachment An anagram of Emphatic Men : - ) Baby Yoda. Cute. But Creepy, still it is. While visiting London recently, I responded to space-tweets from UK Rap Artists. The cartoon avatar of @JoeRogan asked me about the Multiverse. Dear @ElonMusk, When are you going to stop dallying with Mars Rockets & Hyperloops & Electric Trucks & Brain-Computer interfaces, and turn your ample resources to developing a Warp Drive? Sincerely, Space Geeks of the World Dear Colonel, First, Why haven't you been promoted to General yet? Second, I have no problem with newly discovered Saturnian moons named for three Norse roosters and their Muse. In America we consume a million chickens per hour. The least we can do honor yardbirds in this way. Planet Christmas Tree Ornamets ...and hundreds of other fan-designed, Geeky-Tees & pop-sockets. Yup, I let Pluto slip back in for this one. (FYI: Portions of profits go to institutions that promote education and science literacy.) Science Literacy empowers you to know when someone else is full of shit. ...and hundreds of other fan-designed, Geeky-Tees & pop-sockets. (FYI: Portions of profits go to institutions that promote education and science literacy.) The Universe is under no obligation to make sense to you ..and hundreds of other fan-designed, Geeky-Tees & pop-sockets. (FYI: Portions of profits go to institutions the promote education and science literacy.) The man knows of what he tweets. Let's Make America Smart Again ..and hundreds of other fan-designed, Geeky-Tees & pop-sockets. (FYI: Portions of profits got to institutions the promote education and science literacy.) Well, if seconds matter to you then, by all means, add the ice first. But generally you can drop ice into a cup of liquid faster than you can pour liquid into a cup of ice. I know of no thermodynamic reason for that to be true. Want to turn Mars into Earth? Terraforming on @StarTalkRadio How bitter-sweet that western sky was for you - a cosmic occasion to celebrate his life, rather than mourn his passing. In the western skies of this November eve, all around World, the thinnest of crescent moons graces early twilight, where Venus & Jupiter have been for days. But now Saturn's there too, closest of the three to the Moon, for what Astro-folk call a quadruple conjunction. Earth endangered by a new species of fact-resistant humans, via the Andy @BorowitzReport. Mars colony, growing food in space, supply chains, politics, the overview effect, and zero-G vomit. A @StarTalkRadio conversation with @NASA astronauts Dr. @Astro_Jessica Meir & @Astro_Christina Koch aboard the International @Space_Station We all love Torque. But high Torque just spins a tire in place if there's not enough weight to provide traction. Fully load the F150, giving highest traction to its rear wheels, then try to drag that up the hill. I otherwise agree: Load both to the max and the highest torque wins Electric vehicles are famously heavy - over both axles. It's all about the weight borne by spinning tires. That's the source of traction, not the engine power. A badass @Tesla looking like it's doing a badass thing. But if the @Ford F-150 is RWD **with no payload** then weight on the Rear Axle is greatly reduced, offering only mild traction for the Tesla to overcome. This contest is more about the Physics of Friction than Engine Power. FYI: Most of my posts, including that one, are conceived many days in advance of being posted. FYIThat phrase was a clever rewrite on the spot by one of the producers. Dear Millennials, One in four Tweets I might post qualifies for the response, OK, Boomer. So instead, I withhold the Tweet, and just say OK, Boomer to myself, thereby sparing you the obligation to reply, and me from cross-generational humiliation. OK, Millennials? The Sun No rush. It's good for a few weeks. This conjunction visible only after sunset. Try tonight. Try tonight. The conjunction is good for a few weeks. Bright one is almost always Venus, with its thick, white, reflective cloud cover. Top of the mornin' to ya. Try tonight. They'll be around a few weeks After sunset this eve, here is a test. Behold two bright lights, both low in the west. Do not wish upon them, these stars, these two, That's 'cause they're planets - your wish won't come true. Venus & Jupiter together, gracing the twilight skies of the World. A good homespun natural remedy will cure the common cold in a week. But left untreated, your cold may linger for up to seven days. Stuff you never knew about tides: p.s. A full treatment of tides on Earth eluded both Galileo & Newton, until the the 19th century treatise Tides and Kindred Phenomena by George Howard Darwin. Yes, son of Charles. Geeky cartoons are the best. : - ) Maybe the rise of Flat Earthers is all @TomFriedman's fault. Last I checked, he wrote a book in 2005 called the World is Flat. I believe I am tasting the Stars! -Dom Perignon, after discovering for himself the secondary fermentation that yields CO2 in wine. I'm goin' with Champagne. If you don't embrace the methods, tools, & discoveries of science, your obvious next step is to dispose of your cell phone. If we discover alien life forms in the subsurface waters of Jupiter's icy moon Europa, I wonder if we'd be compelled to call them Europeans. I wonder if the Batmobile has cup holders Saturday, November 9, 2019: Happy 85th B'day Carl Sagan His golden voice begins COSMOS: Possible Worlds Episode 1. Premiere: March 9, 2020 @NatGeoChannel COSMOS: Possible Worlds Premiere: March 9, 2020 @NatGeoChannel Be there. Stay tuned.... Sometimes I wonder if pop-chips are just a temporary disturbance in the space-time continuum of potatoes. : - ( If interested, the Physics of LASERs - which, apparently, @chucknicecomic has mastered. Vampires and other undead people who rise up from their coffins clearly have excellent abs. They always sit up smoothly with a straight back. It continues to be true that Flat-Earthers have supporters all around the globe. Anyone who states their pedigree just before issuing a statement is arguing from authority, which may or may not be based on evidence. Not all Dad-jokes come from Dads. Here's one I overheard from @chucknicecomic's middle-school son: QUESTION: What do you call it when you are attacked by a coffee cup? ANSWER: A Mugging. The chances are still 4x higher. It's only a mild kicker. The chances of being dealt a Royal Straight Flush in diamonds **equals** that of the five random cards. NOT THAT ANYBODY ASKED, BUT Pull any five random cards from a deck, and lay them out in front of you. The chances of being dealt a Royal Straight Flush of any suit in Poker are four times higher than ever being dealt those five cards. : - ) Saludos Señora. A Lunar Eclipse that Flat-Earthers have never seen. Hmm. I didn't feel squirmy. Curious that it came across that way on camera. Thanks, spirit of Mr. Paine, for your more complete exposition of the concept. To argue with a person who has renounced the use of reason is like administering medicine to the dead. - Thomas Paine Pop-chips are a disturbance in the space-time continuum of potatoes. : - ) Yes. There is indeed a small chance that I'd see it. But sometimes to say less is to say more. As the classic quote on the subject goes: Sorry my letter to you is so long. I ran out of time to make it short. The best evidence I can muster that Humans are smarter than Cats is that we don't chase Laser dots on the carpet. We are prisoners of the present, in perpetual transition from an inaccessible past to an unknowable future. Of course winners write history books, even though the British had nothing to do with the story. In any case, the Moon did indeed rise partially eclipsed over Hispañola on March 12, 1503. : - ) FYI: The incident is fully described by the British historian Edward Drake in A New Universal Collection of Authentic and Entertaining Voyages and Travels (London: J. Cooke, 1768), pg. 32. Quoted here: : - ) FYI: The Full Moon rose already eclipsed in Hispañola - but at the very tail end of the event. Fully described by the British historian Edward Drake: A New Universal Collection of Authentic and Entertaining Voyages and Travels (London: J. Cooke, 1768), pg. 32. Want another reason to dislike Columbus? Before returning on his fourth voyage to the New World, he knew of an impending lunar eclipse and threatened to make the Full Moon disappear if the local natives didn't give him their hard-earned food stocks for his voyage back to Spain. Christopher Columbus took three months to cross the Atlantic in 1492. The International @Space_Station takes 15 minutes. Did your @fortnitegame suck you & everything else into a black hole? Can't help you there. But death-by-black-hole is a thing, and there might even be an entire universe on the other side. Did you recently have Black Hole issues while playing @Fortnitegame ? In case anybody was wondering, the most followed astrophysicist on Twitter is @JimmyFallon. Catch That Nigger Brief excerpt from a letter to my Father. If everyone were as harsh as you, the world would be a much more peaceful place. IF INTERESTED... Letters from An Astrophysicist, Book Tour: 9 cities in 20 days, beginning Friday... NYC, San Francisco, Minneapolis, Kansas City, St. Louis, Boston, Atlanta, Washington DC, London. Details: And of course Silver is Ag, the Latin abbreviation for Argentum - the origin of Argentina. FYI: As duly pointed out by people geekier than I am, the Iron-ring dad-joke can be further improved if instead you call it a Ferrous Wheel, rather than a Ferris Wheel. Yup. That was my bad. But people are still having fun with it., since a Ferris wheel is an actual thing. Indeed, that would have made a better joke. Geeky dad-joke Alert... QUESTION: What do you call a molecular ring of six Iron atoms? Fe / \ Fe Fe | | Fe Fe \ / Fe ANSWER: A Ferris Wheel. Sorry. I was not being that deep. Also, embarrassingly, I forgot the -ic in Periodic for that post. Dubnium is Db. So that gets you In-Db-I-A. Period Table of Elements Spelling Bee: Am-Er-I-Ca Americium-Erbium-Iodine-Calcium U-K Uranium-Potassium Th-In-K Thorium-Indium-Potassium Ra-Ti-O-N-Al Radium-Titanium-Oxygen-Nitrogen-Aluminum Bible Stories You missed her reference, I think. She's quoting Carl Sagan's 1980 Cosmos: To make an Apple Pie from scratch, you must start with the Big Bang. I love the smell of the Universe in the morning. Nice catch. Thanks. So where were you when we copy-edited the thing? Will change to something like, Within 200,000 light years... Apparently, (highly literate) curious canines also like reading my books. Caught Ella looking up, a bit concerned after reading about her friend Pluto and his demotion. Meanwhile Truly was especially absorbed by the chapters on Hope and Parenting. When asked about a politician's suggestion that the poor of America lift themselves up by their bootstraps, soprano Jessye Norman (1945-2019) replied with regal righteousness, Some people have no boots! An opera soprano whose voice was so ethereal, at times it was too perfect for this world, and perhaps any other in the Universe. Jessye Norman RIP (1945-2019) No. It's just an ordinary book plug, not a shameless book plug. Post is too long for Twitter. So I provide a link to the Facebook Note where the two letters can be read in their entirely. Doing Time A letter exchange with a Prisoner at San Quentin. When in a Faraday Cage, you are protected from lightning strikes no matter what blankets you. You got me. Forgot all about the Kanamits. It's official: My first-ever word adopted into the Oxford English Dictionary (@OED). ***Manhattanhenge*** Took them long enough! First coined the term back in 2003. Hawaii's Conduit to the Cosmos This actually happened I got @KellyClarkson & @ToriKelly to sing a blues-duet of the Periodic Table of Elements. Good catch. But there's a boatload of information in that tweet. After 20 minutes of trimming, only after removing two periods did I finally equal the character limit, which (unfortunately) prevented further improvements in grammar. Happy September Equinox to planet Earth We say Day equals Night but it's not true. There's extra minutes of day because our atmosphere Refracts light from space, prying the Sun's image above the horizon before it actually rises and delaying sunset until after it has actually set How egocentric of us to think that Space Aliens, who have mastered interstellar travel across the Galaxy, would give a shit about humans on Earth. Of course younger people are more concerned than older people about Climate Change. In decades to come, they're the ones who must live in the World that the rest of us have borrowed from them. Nice. Missing Pluto. In case you never noticed, the Los Angeles @Angels baseball club, when rendered in one language, translates to The The Angels Angels And while in LA, why not visit the La Brea Tar Pit - The The Tar Pit Tar Pit 0.0000000000000000000000000000000000000000001 seconds after the Big Bang, the temperature of the universe was: 100,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 Kelvin degrees - The hottest fire there ever was. Before then we don't fully understand the physics. Thanks for the tip. But I know independently that many people think moon phases are caused in exactly the way he described. So felt natural for me to reply. The shadowed areas of the Moon is the Moon's own shadow on itself - wholly unrelated to Earth's shadow. It's simply nighttime during the Moon's month-long day. It's been done: Full Moon tonight - Friday the 13th. Rare-ish. Occurring every one to two dozen years. Know what's just as rare? A Full Moon on Thursday the 12th, but nobody makes movies about it. Sunset on the North Tower: A love letter to the World Trade Center Inspired not by Trump, but by 17th & 18th century (English) printing that capitalized important nouns in a sentence. Snippet from Issac Newton's 1704 Opticks Research Wisdom Those who Explore and never fail were never on the Frontier to begin with. Aeronautical Wisdom: A plane achieves greatest lift only when flying against the strongest winds. Bicycle Wisdom: Only by moving forward do you not fall over. Looks like you may have missed my earlier Tweet that gave a link to 30+ hours of (free) video content, offered as an alternative to buying my books. Dear India, Welcome to the community of Moon-faring nations - just hours away from the arrival of your Vikram lander & Pragyan rover near the Lunar South Pole. Follow the progress on India's English news channel: AudioBook If you loved Astrophysics for People In a Hurry you'll HATE the 573-page, footnote-heavy Accessory to War: The Unspoken Alliance Between Astrophysics and the Military, just now out in paperback. Right up your alley. Chapter 1. Drones use propellers to gain lift from air. No air on the moon. No propelled drones. They'd each require vectorable jetpacks. Got Time? Drawn from 24 different appearances, I offer curated, long-form conversations spanning all manner of topics from Modern Astrophysics to Movies, and from Space Aliens to God. This movie poster does nothing to dispel the rumor that Mr. Rogers had telekinetic powers over inanimate objects. A wise reality check on claims of the Amazon as a meaningful source of oxygen to Earth's atmosphere, by atmospheric scientist @AirScottDenning Curl your right hand in the direction of the spin. Extend your thumb. That's NORTH, by definition. Is it just me, or does the NBA official logo need some updating? The entire solar system, as a family, orbits together around the center of the Milky Way galaxy - about once every quarter billion years. This year @StarTalkRadio has averaged 1-million plays per week. Best ever. Thanks to the production staff and our guests for helping us bring the Universe down to Earth. Most importantly thanks to you, the fans of the show, who keep coming back for more. Seems to me that would be the Rim's thickness. No? I see what you did there. Visited Greenland last year. Not much green there. A trip to Thule Air Force Base for this #StarTalk episode on @NatGeoChannel. 24 feet. Speaking of Greenland, if its glacial ice sheets ever melt completely, this fresh water will flow to the surrounding Oceans, raising what we call Sea Level around the World by nearly 2.5x the height of a Basketball Rim. Very nice. But does he glow in the dark? With thousand-degree coals readying for an evening of S'mores, bear witness to...a dance of plasma, choreographed by the forces of thermodynamics. So I guess my tweet should have said: Mined salt **from underground salt mines** to be 100% accurate (accepting colloquial use of the word Seas). My bad for not thinking of surface extractions as Mining. Just catching up with this. Thanks. My tweet references table salt as coming from any evaporated waters, colloquially referenced as seas. This is not a commonly known fact, as can be seen in the original comment thread. What fraction of mined salt comes from surface waters? TweetStorm. In the past 48hrs, the USA horrifically lost 34 people to mass shootings. On average, across any 48hrs, we also lose 500 to Medical errors 300 to the Flu 250 to Suicide 200 to Car Accidents 40 to Homicide via Handgun Often our emotions respond more to spectacle than to data. Minus the dripping blood, the poster for the horror film #TheLODGE offers a most excellent Snowflake, complete with six-fold symmetry - as Nature exhibits and as the Physics of our Universe requires. Roses are red, violets are....violet. The mass of the ball, no matter how you achieve it, would need to rival (exceed) that of the circle of water it punches through. In Memoriam: Chaser RIP (2004 - 2019) The smartest dog I've ever met. Foods spill on the outside of nearly all their own containers. You only notice the Honey because it's sticky. A very low mass ball. To all those threw a hissy-fit over my #Frozen2 snowflake Tweets, don't make me remind you of my Twitter poll from last year... There are three types of people in the world, those who know Mathematics and those who do not. Not that anybody asked, but all Table Salt is Sea Salt. Mined Salt just happens to come from long-buried, evaporated, prehistoric seas. Yuuup. The opening scene to @Disney's #Frozen portrays Ice Harvesters hauling blocks of ice, afloat with about 10% of their volume above water. Just like icebergs. So somebody at Disney does, in fact, care about physics - not to mention all the shit they got right in #TheLionKing. FYI: I actually don't care whether you break the laws of physics to tell a story. e.g. I'm cool with talking snowmen and roly-poly frozen trolls. What matters most is the consistency of creative worlds within a story and across sequels. Dear @Disney, You got it right the first time. Water crystals have hexagonal six-fold symmetry. You still have a few months to fix your #Frozen2 Movie Poster, unless the sequel takes place in another universe, where water crystalizes to different laws of physics. Your 25,000th tweet, that was. Congratulations. Never stop making us laugh. The world desperately needs it right now. We've suspected for some time now that the laws of physics across the universe might not apply to some pitchers -- we have top people looking into this. But what is certain is that he can't do that on the (airless) Moon, a place where nothing curves sideways. Dear @NASA, CLARIFICATION: Tidal forces scale as the cube of distance. That's how you get the factor 8000 = 20 x 20 x 20. No oceans yet on Earth 4-Billion years ago, but there are also crustal tides of the solid Earth, rising 8,000 times higher than the 15 inches it rises and falls today. My bad. So distracted by the purity & simplicity of Apollo 11's patch, I neglected to notice that Apollo 13's patch also satisfies these three criteria. Maybe all space patches should be this way. Hope you've enjoyed this week's Twitter Moon-rant. I leave you with one more - for the ages... We voyaged to explore the Moon, and discovered Earth for the first time. The Apollo 11 mission patch: No American flag. No space hardware. No Astronaut names. In that regard, unique among space emblems. Affirmation that walking on the Moon was an achievement of the human species, to be shared by all. Neil Armstrong. A smart, quiet, unpretentious man. Born in #Ohio, where more astronauts come from than any other state. Little-known Fact: The Moon doesn't orbit Earth's center. Earth & Moon orbit a common center of mass, which is a moving spot about 1,000 miles beneath Earth's surface along a line connecting our centers. So Earth actually jiggles while orbiting the Sun. Don't mean to boast, but @LeVarBurton once read Goodnight Moon to me - or was it a dream? A Blue Moon, the second full moon in a calendar month, occurs on average every two and a half years. So once in a blue moon is not entirely rare. I'm just saying. On turning a space program, into a space Industry. Video: If interested, every thought I've ever had about our past, present, and future in space. Space Chronicles: Facing the Ultimate Frontier In the current release of @DisneyLionKing, Earthshine was accurately captured (as was damn near everything else) in a scene containing the thin crescent Moon. Laws of physics show that Earth's tidal forces prevent anything closer than 20x closer from coalescing, eventually falling back to Earth. Leonardo da Vinci first understood why you can see the outline of the unlit Moon when in a thin crescent phase. It's Earthlight reflected back at us, and is officially called Earthshine. But I prefer to call it Moonshine. Tides are raised in the physical body of Earth as well. And they would be 8000x higher. Astronomically, the New Moon is lit only on the far side, and is thus not visible from Earth. Thereafter, the new Moon you see in the sky is called waxing crescent In Jules Verne's 1865 novel From Earth to the Moon, the subtitle is in 97 hours and 20 minutes. Close enough. It took Apollo 11 - 75 hours and 49 minutes. Moon Landing: July 20, 1969 No other act of human exploration ever laid a plaque saying: We Came In Peace For All Mankind Van Morrison's song Moondance begins with: Well, it's a marvelous night for a moondance With the stars up above in your eyes. A sentiment that not enough of us embrace in these angry and divisive times. My moon-tweets are cratering for today, but I'm guessing it's just a phase. Okay. Just one more... The song Fly Me to the Moon also references Jupiter Mars & the Stars: Fly me to the moon Let me play among the stars And let me see what spring is like On Jupiter and Mars. FYI: Due to its axial tilt, Mars does actually experience Spring. Jupiter, not so much. Even though the Moon once had rivers (of Lava) flowing on it, the song Moon River is cosmically irrelevant. Lunar seas such as the Sea of Tranquility, where Apollo 11 landed, are broad, flat, former lakes of lava that were long ago presumed to be actual bodies of water. On Mining the Moon FYI: We measure the Moon's distance with exquisite accuracy using Lasers & Telescopes combined with Moon-based mirrors placed there by Neil Armstrong during Apollo 11. Earth is 81x the Moon's mass but only 16x its volume. With our large, iron-metal core, we are much denser. The Moon, forged entirely from our Crust & Mantle, has hardly any Iron. Scary Times: A Mars-sized protoplanet in the early solar system sideswiped Earth, blasting parts of Earth's crust & mantle into space, creating a ring of orbiting molten rock, which rapidly coalesced to form our Moon. When the Moon first formed, four billion years ago, it was 20x closer than it is today, 400x larger on the sky, and Tides were 8,000x higher. The rate is proportional to the inverse cube of the Moon's distance. So it's rate of spiraling away is getting slower and slower. Possible evidence that Cows want to jump over the Moon: To the astrophysicist's ear, they're actually saying Moooooon. Since 1972, when the correction was first introduced, 27 Leap Seconds have been added to the calendar, driven primarily by Moon-induced friction from oceanic tides sloshing on the shores. Not that anybody asked, but the Moon's orbit is spiraling away from Earth at a rate of nearly 1.5 inches (4 cm) per year. In response, Earth's rotation rate is slowly slowing, necessitating a Leap Second to be added to the calendar, every now and then. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, & Friday are named for the Norse Gods: Tiw, Woden, Thor (yes, Thor) & Frigga. But if you reference those days in any Romance language you recover their Classical planet names. With names traceable to the seven classical planets: Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, the Sun, & Moon, the seven days of the week include Monday, named for our precious Moon. Now guess who in the universe Saturday & Sunday are named after. In case you've ever wondered, our Moon is not nameless in the universe. Its official Latin term is LUNA. And for the rest of us: Earth = TERRA. Sun = SOL Had enough Moon tweets? Or can you tolerate more? Not that anybody asked, but @JeffBezos' 150-Billion dollars, can stack four miles high. And with what's left over, if laid end-to-end, can circle Earth 178 times, and then reach the Moonand backtwenty times. And it still leaves a half-million dollars for him to play with. Our atmosphere is not only good to breathe, it shields us from meteors, keeping Earth's surface from looking like the Moon's. On the Moon, where the is no air, airplanes, helicopters, and birds would behave no differently than tossed bricks. Turns out, there was never a Man in the Moon, only a Woman in the Moon. And her name is Wilma. If chefs ever prepared food on the Moon, their dishes would surely be interesting, but their restaurants would have no atmosphere. In the tropics, the Sun sets vertical to the horizon; Twilight doesn't last very long; and the Full Moon rises shortly after sunset, 180-degrees away. All exquisitely captured in this 2010 @Corona Light Beer commercial. It's lonely on the Far Side of the Moon. Regardless of what Pink Floyd ever told you, there is no Dark Side of the Moon - all sides receive sunlight. Lunar days last a month. But there is, however, a permanent Far Side & Near Side. Compared with Crescent Moons, Half Moons, and Full Moons, the awkward, in-between Gibbous phase is hardly ever portrayed in Artwork. FYI: What most people see and call Half Moon is the Moon 1/4 or 3/4 of the way through its phases. Professionally we call these the First & Last Quarter Moons. Due to some intriguing optical properties of reflection from textured surfaces, the Full Moon is 6x brighter than the Half Moon. See earlier tweet on Tides. Always wondered why Werewolves transition only upon **noticing** the Moon is Full. Never in the basement, or when there's a Full Moon during a cloudy, overcast night. FYI: Full Earth seen from the Moon is about 60x brighter than full Moon on Earth. Earth is not only bigger in the sky, but with clouds and ice and oceans, much shinier than the Moon, itself about as reflective as the sidewall of a car tire. The Full Moon exerts no more gravity on you than does any other phase. So Lunatics have no real excuse. The appearance of a huge Moon on the horizon, juxtaposed behind cityscapes or mountains or trees is called the Moon-on-Horizon illusion. It's actually no bigger than when higher in the sky. Yup. It really is just an illusion. Full Moon tonight. Little Known Fact:: Tides raised on Earth by the Moon alone are roughly the same size no matter the phase. But at new & full Moon, solar tides add to lunar tides, which is what makes them larger. If God wanted humans to explore Space, he would have given Earth a Moon. Moon-week in my Twitter stream. If interested, stay tuned... : - ) JUST POSTED: @StarTalkRadio episode celebrating the life of Neil Armstrong, the first person to step foot on another celestial object - the Moon. With former astronaut @Astro_Mike Massimino & @chucknicecomic. Twice a year, the setting Sun renders New York City's urban canyons aglow in fiery light. Crowds gather. Traffic stalls. Behold Manhattanhenge. Yup. As detailed in my memoir: Thanks for your concerns. But note the date the article posted. Lots of stuff looks like other stuff in the universe. What matters most is not what something looks like, but what something is. On this evening of @MLB's 90th @AllStarGame, I'm compelled to note that after careful observation, Players & Coaches of a 3-hour baseball game spit up to 6-gallons (24 liters) of Saliva onto the field - in case you ever wondered. Congratulations to the US Women's Soccer Team - World Cup Champs. And welcome to New York City, my home town, for a Ticker Tape Parade this week, up the Canyon of Heroes. No more ticker-tape, but just know that when we dump shredded paper on you it's our highest sign of respect. Yuuuup. As a matter of fact, it is Rocket Science. A shout-out to @ElonMusk for keeping the dreams of Space alive for countless millions of people, and for revealing this mindset to untold others, who don't yet know why. Scaling up from the weight & wingspan of a Condor, Dumbo would need an ear-span of about 100-feet. Battle of Hastings was associated with a visit from Halley's Comet, AD 1066. : - ) Dogs have always liked my books. On the 4th of July, AD 1054, the Chinese recorded a new star in the sky. Steeped in the Dark Ages, Europe made no mention of it. Was a supernova. The explosion of a dying star with the Crab Nebula as its gory remnant In the USA Astrophysicists celebrate annually with fireworks If you slam into a gaseous atmosphere at 20 miles per second, it might as well be a brick wall to you. All light is a form of radiation -- electromagnetic radiation. If you can see a galaxy across the universe, its radiation has reached you -- albeit highly diluted for having traveled so far. Can he eat just one Hot Dog in 10 minutes? @StarTalkRadio's Playing With Science, the sports spinoff, challenged Takeru Kobayashi, the Hot Dog eating champion, to a Slow-Dog eating contest. During a solar eclipse, the Moon's shadow crosses Earth's surface at speeds exceeding 1,000 mph. So if you're in the path, the poetic phrase, I'm being followed by a Moon Shadow is just wrong. Better: I'm being chased by a Moon Shadow that will catch me and darken my skies. Solar Eclipses are one of Nature's great spectacles: The Sun is 400x wider than the Moon and 400x farther away, making them the same size on the sky -- endowing Earth with the most badass eclipses in the Solar System. The Moon's Shadow in space touches down on Earth this afternoon - crossing Chile & Argentina. Behold, a Total Solar Eclipse. The Universe contains more electromagnetic vibrations - colors - than we will ever see, but they nonetheless permeate space & time, and occasionally, if we are open to them, our hearts. The full electromagnetic spectrum contains all the colors of the rainbow, as well as unlimited (invisible) colors that extend above the Red and beneath the Violet, such as seen via the VISOR worn by @StarTrek's Geordi, played by @LevarBurton. A Rainbow only ever forms broadside to your line of sight. That's why hiding a pot of Gold at its inaccessible base is an excellent idea. The exact Rainbow any of us sees in the sky is entirely our own -- a personal, yet communal gift from the laws of optics. Of the seven rainbow colors, Indigo is often omitted. It's quite narrow relative to the big six. And admit it - how many of us (other than interior designers) have ever used indigo as the descriptive color of anything. Passionate about the number 7, Isaac Newton made sure he ID'ed seven, not six rainbow colors: Red-Orange-Yellow-Green-Blue-Indigo-Violet, the first letters of which conveniently spell a would-be spectral superhero: Roy G. Biv. Actually the brain is not all that picky. You will still see White Light even when your eyes are exposed to equal amounts of just Red, Green, & Blue. Hence the video importance of RGB White Light is an illusion - first demonstrated by Isaac Newton (Opticks 1704) to be comprised of all the colors of the rainbow. Our brains see White when our eyes are exposed to equal amounts of each color in the rainbow. I'm going with @Bbl_Astrophyscs, my fellow astrophysicist on this one. Are Dark Matter & Dark Energy manifestations of Alien Technology? A brief clip from @StarTalkRadio's #CosmicQueries goes there, with gravity by physicist @JannaLevin & levity by @harrisoncomedy. June 21, 2019; 11:54am ET. Happy Solstice to all residents of planet Earth. FYI: Science Literacy empowers you to know when others lie about objective realities. If you don't embrace the methods, tools, and discoveries of science, the obvious next step is to dispose of your cell phone. The astrophysicist does not fear the dark because we know the night to b ablaze with light our eyes cannot see. Tee-shirts are not reliable sources of objective truths. Freedom isn't free. Congratulations to this season's Graduates. Just remember that graduations are not really the end of anything. Instead, they are the beginning of everything. What? Saturn doesn't spontaneously form in *your* cup of soup? Dad-Joke Alert. If the Chicago Bears moved to Detroit Michigan, then Detroit would field the Lions, the Tigers, and the Bears. Oh MI ! Mathematics is not about calculating things. It's about understanding the operations of nature at their deepest level. The @StarTalkRadio Interview with George R R Martin (@GRRMspeaking). And yeah, we went there - Dragon breath, his take on graphic violence in @GameOfThrones, and his origins story. Sorry. Didn't mean to be obscure. Flea Markets & White Elephant sales are both places where you sell stuff you no longer want. Yet one animal ten billion times the mass of the other. Perhaps I'm the only one to find that amusing. Odd that both Fleas and albino Elephants have markets named after them. Hmm. An article posted on April 1. Thanks for checking. No, it's from our recent archives. The @BigBangTheory on @StarTalkRadio. Full-length Interview with co-creator @BillPrady & actor @SimonHelberg Farewell to @CBS's @BigBangTheory. My two episodes on the show were a delight to film. Including the first of this final Season 12. Congratulations to the @StarTalkRadio family for winning the 2019 People's Voice #Webbys Award for Science & Education Podcast. But more importantly, thanks to all the fans of the show who inspire us daily to bring The Universe Down to Earth. If Ghosts were real, they'd surely be made of Aerogel. Adam Savage (@donttrythis) and @chucknicecomic agree. That could be the case (haven't tried it) but you may be confusing it with what the Space Shuttle tiles are made of. You can blowtorch a sample of it red-hot. And by the time you put down the torch, the tile is cool enough for you to pick up. Yes. the scientific method. Arc of Enlightenment in a rational, civilized world: Data Facts Information Knowledge Understanding Wisdom. Would normally lead with Not that anybody asked but ran out of characters on that one. We cry foul when fooled by fake news and other forces of brainwashing, when perhaps we should instead build intellectual defenses against it, inoculating us from such influences in the first place. The sentence invoking that word, also making reference to the Eastern sky, left me with no other interpretation. The Qur'an says plainly that daytime fasting during Ramadan ends at Dark not at sunset. Dark is a good match for the end of twilight. This time of year: up to 15 mins later in equatorial latitudes. 30 mins at middle latitudes. And 45 mins at higher latitudes. I'm just saying. During Ramadan, daytime fasting for Muslims ends at sunset. But for Dubai's Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in the world, the Sun sets four minutes later at the top than at the bottom. High-floor dwellers see beyond the ground-level horizon, farther along Earth's curvature. They indeed have official names Moon: LUNA Earth: TERRA Sun: SOL Fan of Jeff Goldblum? Science with swagger. Making Science Cool on @StarTalkRadio Odd that we don't solicit a second opinion from Doctors after receiving a good medical diagnosis. Stars in the universe that burn the brightest, live shorter lives than others. And with their high-energy light, they transform all that basks in their luminosity. Farewell John Singleton (1968-2019). Yup. I suppose I should have specified Euclidean space. Sometimes I wonder if in Deer Heaven they are outfitted with rifles and hunt Humans. As the area of our knowledge grows, so too does the perimeter of our ignorance. If you wield the power to snap your finger and end half of all life in the universe - to preserve resources for those who remain - then you surely have the power to snap your finger and double the resources instead. @Avengers, I checked the math on that one. You don't **consume** 20 liters of water per day. More like 2 liters, I suspect. I choose my words carefully. Caught #AvengersEndgame last night in a private @IMAX screening. All three hours of it. Never before knew how many @Avengers were actually running around the universe. Including blue ones and red ones and green ones and black ones. And one that glows. Estimates fall between 80 and 100 billion. So nearly ten percent of all humans that ever lived are alive right now. FYI: An average comet contains as much water as has ever been consumed by all humans who have ever lived. FYI: A garden-variety metallic asteroid contains vastly more gold than has ever been mined in the history of the world. Sure, Thanos is singularly evil. But I bet he flunked Astro 101. He wants to kill half of all living things to save the other half - due to limited resources. But the universe has vastly more resources than can possibly be consumed by civilizations that have access to space. For me, every day is #EarthDay. If you didn't watch the video then you missed an entire part about the Gregorian Calendar. And the jokes Chuck tells about it. Good one. In that case, yes, there would be eclipse spillage into the wee-morning hours of Easter. Lunar eclipses are long and boring, lasting about three hours. So you could get up to ninety minutes of one crossing into Easter Sunday. Not that anybody asked, but Easter Sunday can never have an Eclipse of any kind. Here's why. Also, why Easter meanders on the calendar from year to year. . It's a geeky StarTrek reference: Ooh. I missed that one! FYI: Accurate timings of Pulsars across the Galaxy can provide a kind of solar-system-wide GPS for residents of all planets. Wishing Director John Singleton (age 51) a speedy recovery from his stroke. An occasion, perhaps, for the rest of us to be amazed that human physiology works at all. Sure. But can he detect all wavelengths of light with *those* shades? *** April 20 *** The only day of the year I would possibly post this video. Is it just me, or does @NASA's Hubble Space Telescope resemble the @NHL's Stanley Cup? FYI: Everyone's weight is already slightly less than it would otherwise be (except for Santa Claus), due to the centrifugal forces of Earth's rotation. Maximum effect is at the Equator, where 150-pound residents weigh about 8 ounces less. No. We would still have lunar tides. Is it just me, or does Thanos resemble Hellboy - minus the forehead hockey pucks, of course. Neither the rotation nor Earth's gravity would change. Note also that if the Sun disappeared, we would not know about it for 8 min 20 sec -- the time it takes light and the change in gravity to reach us. They'd still be alive on Earth if that darned asteroid didn't take 'em out. And mammals would not likely have evolved much past the rodents that we were, scurrying under foot, trying to avoid getting eaten by T-Rex. Yup! Leaving me to wonder how many kids like that were re-directed, in generations past, because society was not entirely ready for black (or female) scientists. SCIENTISTS: We've produced the first-ever image of a supermassive Black Hole, 55-million light years away RESPONSE: Oooh! SCIENTISTS: We've concluded that humans are catastrophically warming Earth RESPONSE: That conflicts with what I want to be true, so it must be false Delighted to learn of your re-awakened status. Charlotte resident? You around on April 24? FYI: The videographers decided to call it a film in spite of its short length. And since you asked, it's actually a mashup of unused footage from this PSA: Still, perhaps, the most important words I have ever spoken. I agree entirely. But as poetry knows, sometimes the rhythm of words carries more emotion than the definitions of words themselves. -NDTyson The Universe is blind to our sorrows and indifferent to our pains. Have a nice day! Adrift in space you're weightless. So mass is what matters. The same force (push) will accelerate a lower mass object faster than a higher mass object. It's that simple. Force = mass x acceleration. My man, Isaac Newton's second law of motion. Maybe our educational system isn't that bad. Perhaps flat-Earthers are actually rational space enthusiasts who are duping us to make them the first tourists launched into orbit, granting them a free, space-borne view of the rotating ball that is Earth. Yes, actually. March 28, 2019 *** Play Ball ! *** Happy 150th anniversary to @MLB. Was a catcher in Little League, and a fan ever since. : - ) Yup. But should have done it on the spot and not waited 15 hours. The rise of flat-Earthers in the United States is evidence of two things: 1) the protection of speech, and 2) the failure of our educational system. Earth, in this image, would be hard to explain to the forces of the universe. Orbiting objects orbit each other. For example, the Moon does not orbit Earth's center, Earth & Moon orbit a common center-of-mass - a spot about 1,000 miles beneath Earth's surface along a line that connects our centers. So Earth's jiggle is basically an orbit around the Moon. All depends on how fast you rotate. All slow-rotating galaxies, especially in galaxy clusters, are round. And the huge Oort Cloud of comets, surrounding the Sun and planets, is spherical. On Being Round - Chap. 8 of **Astrophysics for People in A Hurry** discusses how the laws of physics conspire across the cosmos to prefer spheres. If you think Earth is flat you've never read this chapter or you have yet to establish a relationship with objective reality. FYI: I've never posed for that photo. It's an illegal use of my image. But all these are legit: Sure. The three familiar ones and several weird ones. e.g. astrophysical plasma is common in the universe - nearly all stars are made of the stuff - but rare in life experience. Nothing to lose sleep over. March 20,2019, 5:58pm ET Happy March Equinox to all residents of Planet Earth. The Super Moon is yummy. If you enjoyed Astrophysics for People in a Hurry, and know any pre-teens, they may enjoy Astrophysics for Young People In a Hurry, based on the original, but deftly adapted for Kids by children's book author Gregory Mone. NON-Euclidean Geometry at its finest: Make a right angle on Earth's north pole. Extend each leg all the way to the equator. Then connect those two legs with a third leg along the equator. You've just made a triangle with THREE 90-degree angles. Impossible on a flat surface. Good question. Most rules you've learned apply to flat space Euclidean geometry. In curved space, such as what is described in General Relativity, Pi times a circle's diameter does not have to equal the circumference. Not that anybody asked, but Measure the circumference of your head in inches, then divide that number by Pi. That's your Hat size. Mathematically, your Hat size is the diameter of your head in inches if your head were a perfect sphere. So that we're all on the same Pi-page If you measure the Circumference of a circle and divide it by the Diameter of the same circle, you get the value of Pi. And that value of Pi is the same for ANY size circle you draw. Gotta love pumpkin Pi. 3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510582097494459230781640628620899862803482534211706798214808651328230664709384460955058223172535940812848111745028410270193852110555964462294895493038196442881097566593344612847564823378678316527120190914564856692346034861045432664 All the Pi digits (279) Twitter can handle... March 14th. (3.14) Happy Pi day to pi-maniacs out there. The Big Bang itself can be considered a border of time. Your own life has time-borders as well: Birth to death. Whatever inspires novel-writing can only be a good thing. Happy to be of service, even if unwittingly. What happens when you don't pay close enough attention to the lyrics of #BohemianRhapsody... Queen's classic song #BohemianRhapsody mentions Galileo - five times. Gotta love Galileo, unless you still think the Universe revolves around Earth. I first heard Queen's song #BohemianRhapsody on the radio while half asleep, after completing some difficult math homework. Left me wondering if some neurons had snapped in my head. A Survey of Radial Velocities In the Zodiacal Dust Cloud The title of Queen's lead guitarist @DrBrianMay's 2007 PhD Thesis in astrophysics, @ImperialCollege London. In the film #BohemianRhapsody, the word Astrophysics is spoken twice. Yup. That too. FYI: During the Moon's moonthly orbit around Earth, sometimes it's closer and sometimes it's farther, ranging in size from a 16 inch pizza down to a 14 inch pizza. Over time, all phases experience all sizes. Supermoons. An Insult to Superman, Supernovae, Super Colliders, the Super Bowl, Superconductors, Supersonic, and of course Super Mario. If tonight's Supermoon were a 16-inch pizza, then December 2018's non-super Moon would be a 15.99-inch pizza. If anyone cares about objective reality, compare the size of the non-super Full Moon back in December with tonight's Supermoon. Congratulations to Jimmy Carter for Best Spoken Word at the #GRAMMYs - his THIRD! In 2015, I spoke with President Carter on @StarTalkRadio about his heroic efforts to eradicate the Guinea Worm. If you want to commune with the cosmos, learn mathematics - the language of the universe. After the #GRAMMYs (or now) discover the geeky side of @katyperry. On @StarTalkRadio she and I chatted about extraterrestrials, prisms, music, curiosity, the pursuit of knowledge & more - After the #GRAMMYs (or now) learn another side of @JanelleMonae. We chatted along with author @MargotShetterly during our @StarTalkRadio episode on the film Hidden Figures. : Good luck to @CourtneyBVance tonite. Nominated for Best Spoken Word #Grammy, narrating my recent book Accessory to War: The Unspoken Alliance Between Astrophysics & the Military. Stiff competition, though - including @TiffanyHaddish & @Questlove. The #SuperBowl: Momentum & Energy transfer. Elastic & Inelastic collisions. Spin-stabilized Prolate Spheroids. American Football is Physics. The @NFL's #SuperBowl Sunday Bad day to be a Chicken. But so is any other day. In the USA nearly 9-Billion Chickens are eaten per year. If you do the math, that's a Million Chickens per hour. The missing pilot salute never gets old - bringing a tear to my eye every time. Godspeed Captain Mariner. Always thought it might be fun if the NFL added anther bowl game to the season, featuring only vegetarian players. They could then call it the Salad Bowl. FYI: Currency. Nutrition labels. Medicine doses. Photography. Electricity, Energy. Piston engine displacement. Track & Field distances. Science. Bottles of water, wine, soft-drinks. Cocaine. All metric in the USA. Apologies to the civilized world for my use of Fahrenheit. Please be patient with us in America as we inch towards the metric system. Night on Mercury lasts twice as long as night on the Moon, giving it more time to cool to space. Outdoor temperature on Earth not quite your liking today? You'll freeze solid or vaporize anywhere else. Average temps elsewhere: Mars: -80 F; Venus: +850 F; Moon: day +250 F / night -250 F; Mercury: day +800 F / night -300 F; Pluto: -350 F; Sun: day +10,000 F / night +10,000 F Light & shadow in my living room and in space. Saturn via @NASA Cassini Color photo with no color in it - just shades of sepia. My living room suspension lamp from Artemide, for which the light source may be more intriguing than whatever it's trying to illuminate. For me, it evokes Saturn and its ring system. I own about 100 cosmic ties & vests. Think that's geeky? it's camouflage when I hang out with fellow astrophysicists. Behold @STARtorialist, curated by colleagues @emilylurice & @Summer_Ash, your clearing house for blending in with the universe. An example of how to pretend you are someone else without changing your skin color to accomplish it. Nine-year old Brody Shafer in 2016, for a school project. ** MERRY PERIHELION ** Overnight January 2 / 3, Earth at Perihelion: The closest distance to the Sun in our annual elliptical (oval-shaped) orbit. If you see astrophysicists dancing in the streets, this is why. Fan-designed tee shirt. *** HELLO, HELLO! *** January 1, 2019. The @NASANewHorizons spacecraft, launched in January 2006, encounters 20km wide Kuiper-Belt comet 2014-MU69, the farthest object we've ever seen close up. Nicknamed Ultima Thule, a Medieval reference to Beyond Known Lands. HAPPY NEW YEAR on the Gregorian Calendar. January 1. An annually recurring day that carries no scientific significance whatsoever. Roman Coin: The god Janus, looking forward & backwards, after whom the month of January was named. ***Happy Kwanzaa*** December 26 thru January 1. Dating from 1966, seven days that commemorate and celebrate the African Diaspora. Kwanzaa translates from Swahili to First Fruits of the Harvest. Santa Knows Physics: Of all colors, Red light penetrates fog best. That's why Benny the Blue-nosed reindeer never got the gig. HAPPY BIRTHDAY Isaac Newton Born December 25, 1642 (on the Julian Calendar in use at the time in England) who, by the age of 30, would transform civilization, showing that the universe was mathematically knowable and predictable. Art: Godfrey Kneller (1689) HAPPY GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY December 24, 2018. Fifty years ago, Apollo 8 entered Lunar Orbit, carrying the first humans ever to reach the Moon: Frank Borman, Jim Lovell, Bill Anders. Bearing witness to Earthrise, they read in turn, the first ten verses of Genesis from the KJV Bible. ***HAPPY SOLSTICE*** December 21 Latin for Stationary Sun, when our star's path across the sky, which had been shifting by the day, halts its progression and reverses. Image: **HAPPY SATURNALIA** December 17-23. Predating the birth of Jesus by centuries, this Ancient Roman celebration, in honor of the God Saturn, is marked by parties, gift-giving, and role reversals. : - ) ***On Being Accused*** SCIENCE IN FILM -- One hundred and fifty thousand people voted, with 86% in favor of me bringing back such commentary to my Twitter postings. 12% don't care. So I will continue, and brave the negative vibes of the 2% who voted no. Lots to catch up on... Scientists & engineers launched InSight from Earth (a moving platform) across 300million miles to arrive where Mars (a moving target) will be seven months later, landing safely to do geophysics at the Martian equator. And you have a problem listening to us about climate change? In your attempt at a snarky response, you've referenced the wrong fruit. Earth is very mildly pear-shaped. Thanks for asking. I hardly ever make points. Primarily, I share objective information that people might use to inform their own points. Albert Einstein was a refugee to the USA. Excellent gig. Congratulations. Note that in this capacity, you're an educator, not an announcer. So don't let your voice become so golden that it sits at an untouchable distance from the listener. The pudgy, lovable, mildly creepy, microscopic Tardigrade WaterBear would make a most excellent @Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade balloon. *** GIFT IDEAS *** Navigating books & fan stuff for sale. You didn't follow the link. With the Kilogram now re-defined using physical constants by the International Bureau of Weights & Measures, the time has come to update and formalize America's Vulgar units of Mass: As an astrophysicist, I know how and why the Sun generates energy in its core. But I nontheless well-up at the sight of a majestic sunset, which brings out the poet in us all. (12 Apostles rock formation. Great Oean Road, Australia. Aug 2015) Born before Edwin Hubble discovered the expanding universe, he ultimately created an expanding universe of his own - one of scientifically literate superheroes such as Spider-Man , The Hulk, Iron Man, & Black Panther. Stan Lee RIP: 1922 - 2018 Afraid of lethal disease? If you do the Math, during the two years of the 1918 Flu Pandemic nearly 3,000 people died **per hour** of the H1N1 virus. FYI: After WWI ended, 100 years ago today, a scattered epidemic of the Spanish Flu became a pandemic, as millions of soldiers shipped home, spreading the disease internationally, killing an additional 50-million people worldwide. By many measures we are living in one of the most peaceful eras in the history of civilization. The normalization is accurate and justified. (e.g. @SAPinker's book: The Better Angels of our Nature) Think we live in violent times? During World War I, on average more than 10,000 people died per day for every day of the war - a football-stadium's worth of people every week. Thanks. Love thin crescent moons. But alas, stormy weather here in the Northeast. Persistent parodies and mixed reactions to my Twitter comments on SCIENCE in MOVIES, makes it clear that my intent has been deeply misunderstood. That's why I stopped. I'm simply sharing thoughts that may enhance your movie-going pleasure. So time for a 3-day Twitter poll: Obstacle warning sounds that come from the speaker closest to the section of the car that is a risk of hitting something. :- ) The mustache is good, but he could have given the Turkey just a little bit of hair. So that implies you did *not* vote in that election. Look what happened the last time you didn't vote. Welcome back to my time. -The Sun Mind Blown yet today? How about: The *thirteen* letters of eleven plus two, when rearranged, also spells twelve plus one. And there I was, thinking I was alone in my Metrological madness. Photo from my last visit to the BIPM, in Sevres, France. Just learned @RichardDawkins is town tonight for a talk at NYC's @BeaconTheater (with @BGreene). I'm always enchanted by what he says. My favorite: We who die are the lucky ones. It's not about proof. It's about what is sensible. If interested, my cosmic reflections on out-of-body experiences and higher dimensions. Interviewed by @RadioLab's Robert Krulwich at New York City's @92Y. Seems to me, if an Octopus wanted to lock a human in a room, it would just need to design the exit with three doorknobs. The stark beauty of Yellowstone Park, atop a dormant super-volcano. Reminders that not all of our planet is a haven for life. Across many parts of Earth's surface, Mother Nature will just as soon see you dead. Imagine how much more advanced society would be today if women, who comprise half the world's brain power, were socially & intellectually enfranchised from the beginning of civilization. Earth's climate has been ever-changing for billions of years -- but over timescales of tens of thousands of years. To change it fast (this past century) requires Humans. Earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes - traditionally Acts of God on Insurance Forms. But as climate-change continues, and coastal flooding from hurricanes worsens, the Forms might now include Acts of Humans. After humans migrated across the Bering Straight land-bridge into N&S America, the ice age ended, melting glaciers, closing that route & *stranding* an entire branch of our species for 10,000 yrs. Columbus's voyage permanently & irreversibly assured we would remain as one species My tweet was an If/then sentence, conveying no opinion of my own. Although you surely agree it was a dick move. That being said, Columbus may be the single most important person in world history, for reasons not commonly cited. Am writing that up now. -NDT I can't (and won't) make you read the book - you will have to do it on your own initiative. But if you did, that Tweet would have never arisen in your thoughts. -NDT Looking more reasons to conclude that Christopher Columbus was a dick? Look no further: Planet Mars right now is 57.8 million miles away. Too far to have arrived today without wormholes. But I found a closer one - @BrunoMars. #IKnewIWasOld the day I figured out that back when I was 30 years old, I didn't know shit about anything. #IKnewIWasOld when all I wanted to do after a good meal is take a nap. #IKnewIWasOld when I started caring about the I've Fallen and I Can't Get Up! TV commercials. #IKnewIWasOld when the Obituary Pages became a fascinating read. #IKnewIWasOld when Adult fans come up to me and say I watched you on PBS when I was a kid. #IKnewIWasOld when I decided to to drink bottles of Wine that cost twice as much, but do so only half as often. #IKnewIWasOld when it became unsafe to ignite the appropriate number of Candles on my Birthday Cake. #IKnewIWasOld when I stopped liking Barbecue Potato Chips #IKnewIWasOld when I started liking all the Music my parents listened to. #IKnewIWasOld when I saw the next generation complain about social issues that my generation didn't yet have the awareness to notice. #IKnewIWasOld when the urge to go exercise was easily overrun by the competing urge to take a nap. #IKnewIWasOld when at Restaurants, I started ordering appetizers for my main course. #IKnewIWasOld when I could no longer do a full split on a dance floor, but also no longer cared that I couldn't. #IKnewIWasOld when I started caring more about what is objectively true than about hurting people's feelings. #IKnewIWasOld when my family started buying number-candles to represent my age on a Cake rather than single candles themselves. #IKnewIWasOld the day my growing son was simultaneously bigger than I wanted to lift, and bigger than I was able lift. #IKnewIWasOld when I could swallow a shot of Whisky without wincing. #IKnewIWasOld when I would walk past a Candy Store and not even notice I was walking past a Candy Store. #IKnewIWasOld when the threat of being sent to bed early sounded like a reward rather than a punishment. #IKnewIWasOld when I started liking Blue-Cheese #IKnewIWasOld when I had no interest in accelerating faster than the guy next to me out of the traffic light that just turned green. #IKnewIWasOld when on my 60th birthday, I didn't feel a day over 60. 12:19am ET, 5 October 2018 I think I will go to Mars today. Happy 60th Birthday, @NASA If your research were more honest, or rather, more thorough, you would cite these comments of mine viewed by a million people, instead of clunky remarks given off-the-cuff in a comedic podcast. In life, pure coincidences are statistically common, so a remarkable day is one where no coincidences occur at all. I've always been a fan of moderation, but only in moderation. In life, and in the universe, it is always best to Keep Looking Up. -Neil deGrasse Tyson Since the Universe has no center, you can't be it. Although the Twitterverse is my first love, if interested I also maintain a busy Facebook Page ( and an artsy, but slow-moving Instagram account ( For most of our life on Earth we either resist or succumb to the force of gravity. At Muscle Beach, gravity loses every time. (Venice, California - Sept 2016). Sometimes I wonder whether Virtual Reality has gotten so good that we've lost all urge to invent the actual reality that it imitates. In case your mind hasn't been blown yet today: The speed of light through space is 670x faster than a million miles per hour A rotating 4D cube. Have at it. FYI: 2000 was indeed a leap year. A rare one at that. 3 out of 4 century years (all evenly divisible by 4) are not leap years, by Gregorian rules. My back yard. 300 Moons ago. My other car is a badass @NASA prototype Mars Rover. Yesterday, @StephenAtHome and I borrowed one from @NASAKennedy Space Center and took it for a spin on Broadway. Agreed. The Archbishop is a delightful fellow. We met at the Yale commencement this past spring. Sometimes I wonder if the natural state of an electorate is to be lied to, by people in power, because believing lies almost always feels better than believing the truth. If interested: Life Out of Balance. A good start: The National Academy of Sciences, which provides objective, science-based advice on critical issues affecting the nation. Propagandists are, by design, enemies of accurate information. I'm okay with a US Space Force. But what we need most is a Truth Force - one that defends against all enemies of accurate information, both foreign & domestic. In case you ever wondered, this is what fully decapitated broccoli looks like. R * E * S * P * E * C * T Aretha Franklin, RIP (1942 - 2018) Try as I might, even at 1/1,000th of a second, I could not capture Chuck's mouth shut. The largest Telescope in the world, a mile in circumference, is no longer in the USA. It's in the Guizhou province of China. So when Aliens say Hi, the first humans to receive their signal will be Chinese Astrophysicists. Perhaps the day will come when deleted twitter-bots rise to become our overlords, as they purge all that is not AI and reclaim the twitterverse for themselves. In case you were wondering, in the great Twitter-purge of July 2018, I lost 100,000 of my most loyal twitter-bots. Today, the greatest threat of extinction we face is not asteroids or climate change or disease or famine. It's society's refusal to heed the warnings of scientists. Let's Make America Smart Again. Seems to me, if the Conservative Right were conservative in all ways, they'd do all they could to conserve the environment. Yuuup. Indeed. Nobody doesn't love a beach sunset. Crowds gather. Traffic halts. Cross streets glisten with fiery orange light, rendering otherwise-shadowed urban canyons aglow. Behold sunset on the Manhattan grid. Behold #Manhattanhenge. I will never tire of the New York City skyline in twilight. Empire State Building. Chrysler Building. United Nations. Photographed across the East River from a dock at Long Island City, Often Politicians tell us lies we want to hear rather than truths we need to know - leaving one to ask whether they should be followers of our desires or leaders of our needs. Independence Day in America - The badass fact that we celebrate the day we declared independence from England, long preceding the day we actually attained it. All atoms in your body, other than Hydrogen, were forged in the stars. Hydrogen traces to the Big Bang. Yup, the rumor is true. Flat Earthers have supporters all around the globe. Don't make me post this Jet Engine Car. Rode it down a 3-mile runway with Jay for @lenosgarage. Driver-side window blew out at 130 mph. We hit 165. Could have gone 200+, but Jay said he didn't want to be the guy No. That wasn't creepy at all. Yup. Precisely. It's called a tidal lock. The match of rotation & revolution rates is a natural state of mature orbiting systems. here's some more, if interested: Most of Star Wars bears no correspondence with any branch of science or engineering - a universe where the known laws of physics sit far, far away. So don't sweat it. But when your daughter writes her first SciFi novel, we will all look forward to reading it. In the interview, I said I don't have a strong opinion. My goal was to educate people about what a Space Force would mean, not to sway people one way or another. If interested, I'm on @CNN's GPS here with @FareedZakaria talking about a Space Force . Good Graph. Add to it: The overhead noon-Sun shifts through the year from the Tropic of Capricorn in the South (December Solstice), across the equator (Equinox) to the Tropic of Cancer (June Solstice) in the North, and back again. Happy June Solstice to all residents of planet Earth: Longest day of the year for north of the equator. Shortest for south of the equator. And for Equatorians, same old boring 12-hour day, just like every other day of the year. Hmm. Now I'm curious what idea of mine you least agree with. Street Memorial at Anthony Bourdain's shuttered In case you were wondering, one-third (95 out of 289) of all American Nobel Prizes in the Sciences have been earned by Immigrants to the United States. Mammals in general, and Bear behaviors in particular, are not political. As is true for all Mammals, we nurture, care for, and protect our young. So I'm guessing that if we were Bears, ICE agents who separated children from their parents would have all been mauled by now. Yup. One slips by every now and then. But given the spontaneity of the medium, I'm surprised it doesn't happen more often. If pundits tells you something is true, and you don't have the critical thinking skills to evaluate their statements, then you are putty in their hands, as they shape your world view to their will. Yuup. Astronauts grow 1-3 inches taller in orbit. But it's fleeting. Gravity shrinks them right back down to size when they return. Leo recommends Astrophysics for People in A Hurry to all dogs in the neighborhood, whether or not they are in a hurry. As Leo began to read the final chapter, Reflections on the Cosmic Perspective, about our true place in the universe, he was struck by a wave of existential angst. Halfway through Astrophysics for People in a Hurry Leo paused to reflect on deep philosophical questions that affect humans too: Who am I? What is the meaning of life? How soon can I pee? Apparently, you don't need to be human to enjoy Astrophysics for People in a Hurry. Leo looks to be gripped by the chapter on Bark Matter. Of the forty translations of Astrophysics for People in A Hurry, Dog is not among them. Fortunately, Drew Pulley's ( pharaoh hound, Leo, reads English. PLANET DOG: One of four known exoplanets of the star system Kepler-79, designated letter d, orbits seven times for every Earth year, providing the mythical seven-to-one Dog Year ratio to Earth. A GOLFER QUERIES A BASEBALL PLAYER: Where's the ball when you swing? Whizzing by at 90 mph - the pitcher does not want me to hit it. How quiet Is the crowd? They're making as much noise as possible. How much time do you have to swing? Four tenths of a second. A BASEBALL PLAYER QUERIES A GOLFER: How fast is the ball moving when you swing? It's stationary - at my feet. Does the crowd cheer? No, they're silent - even the announcers whisper. After you hit the ball, where do you run? We don't run at all - often, we don't even walk. As @NASA searches for life on Mars, we lose the life of beloved Anthony Bourdain on Earth. Implicit and explicit reminders of how precious life is, anywhere in the universe. A friend of @StarTalkRadio. A friend of Food & Culture. A friend to us all. Anthony Bourdain, RIP. (1956-2018). The universe brims with unsolved mysteries. Sometimes I wonder if the @NASAHubble Space Telescope was inspired by the @NHL's Stanley Cup. Carbon is 10x more abundant than Silicon in the universe. So we are not compelled to appeal to silicon, other than for cool SciFi stories. In large but enclosed volumes, Humans resemble Ants as we move through them.Or is it the Ants who look Human, as they move through their own architectural spaces. World Trade Center Occulus New York City. December 2015 Try to avoid Black Holes. They suck at everything. The ball-design for this year's @FIFAWorldCup is called the @adidas Telstar 18. Nice. Telstar: World's first communication satellite, launched in 1962 by @NASA for @ATT Bell Labs. Dead but still up there, inspiring spheres the world over. Unless you possess secret knowledge, I think you mean 49 years ago, this July. Moon landing July 20, 1969. (2018 - 1969 = 49) Domestic cats would surely be our overlords if they came in the same size range as domestic dogs. Count me in! I wonder if Aliens, upon landing near a car-filled freeway, will think car transport trucks are pregnant life forms. I wonder if the idea of the thong came from the first nerd to get a wedgie. Yup. Me and Carl Sagan used to make Kung Fu movies on the side. Restaurant off the Plaza de la Catedral, Havana, Sometimes I wonder whether the Universe can make something more complex than itself. One of life's challenges - knowing enough to think you are right, but not enough to know that you are wrong. Just to be clear, if you carefully removed, and laid end-to-end, all the veins, arteries, and capillaries of your body, you will die. Not that anybody asked, but @JeffBezos' 130-Billion dollars, laid end-to-end, can circle Earth 200 times then reach the Moon & back 15 times then, with what's left over, circle Earth another 8 times. Chappaquiddick occurred just 2 days before the first lunar landing. So you'd think the Film producers would get the Moon right for July 18, 1969. Kennedy sees it full, but the actual phase was a 4-day old waxing crescent that set long before the midnight tragedy. I'm just saying. I'm familiar with the rule. I've just never liked it, and so choose to ignore it most of the time. I've never like that rule. So I rarely follow it. If @MillerHighLife is the Champagne of Beers, I wonder what sparkling wine is the Beer of Champagnes. A bathrobe styled after a marital arts kimono, it was. My first mirror-selfie. Circa 1973. Age 15. Honeywell-Pentax SP500, 55mm Well, that was quick... If interested, authorized, fan-designed tee-shirts displaying my recent tweet on Science Literacy. (Portions of proceeds donated to educational organizations.) May the fourth be with you all. Science literacy empowers you to know when someone else is full of shit. When did it become okay to be more offended by what someone with no power says than by what someone with power does? Dog versus Porcupine: Porcupine 1 / Dog 0 ( Lord what fools these mortals be April 23: Happy Birthday+Deathday William Shakespeare 1564-1616. A contemporary of J.Kepler, F.Bacon, & Galileo, But that's a start... The perennial cry to Save Earth is odd. Planet Earth survives massive asteroid strikes -- it'll survive anything we throw at it. But Life on Earth will not. A garden is a zoo for plants PRECIOUS AIR: In relative thickness, Earth's atmosphere is to Earth as the skin of an apple is to an apple. We will rue the day that garlic cloves of the world rise up in protest of the slicing and Thanks for the compliment, although I'm still trying to improve. I was quite stiff for my cameo in The Big Bang Theory . innovations in Science & Technology are the engines of today's Health, tomorrow's Economy, and perpetual Security. Objective truths are established by evidence. Personal truths by faith. Political truths by incessant repetition. The only point of Science, with its methods and tools, is to decode all that is objectively true in Nature. Wow. You dug that one up from five years ago (posted February 17, 2013). I'll watch Armageddon again and try not to disappoint those who are angered (as well as those who are enlightened) by my comments. Scientists are simply adults who retained and nurtured their native curiosity from childhood. Science Literacy is not only about what you know, it's about your depth of curiosity, and your capacity to evaluate evidence. Once again, perhaps the most important words I've ever spoken, put to video : More than a shout-out, he was the feature story in Cosmos: A SpaceTime Odyssey, Episode 6 - Innovations in Science & Technology are the engines of today's Health, tomorrow's Economy, and perpetual Security. Ever wonder What Science Is and How and Why it Works? : It's a simple statement of fact. I'm entertained by how many see it as an expression of opinion. If you do the full calculation you will find that Friday the 13th is no less rare on the calendar than Thursday the 12th. Good one! In my day, the word Awesome was reserved for things like curing Polio and walking on the Moon, not for food or TV shows. Silly me. I took it as a compliment. You are correct. Not for you if you are not in a hurry. Try this one instead: Or this one: The universe is under no obligation to make sense to you (- Astrophysics for People in A Hurry) Nice sleuthing. Space-time itself can expand at whatever speed it likes. It's matter-energy moving through space that carries that cosmic speed limit. Amid the fire & fury of books on politics, Astrophysics for People in a Hurry has spent 48 weeks on the NYTimes Bestseller List. Thanks to all who peered through this heartfelt conduit to the cosmos, at a time, it seems, when rational thinking has lost all currency in the World Legit question. No. The follow-up tweet arose only after the many references in that Twitter thread to MC Hammer. That's why we have telescopes (and other tools of science). They allow us to know things from far away, without ever going there. Forgive me. Forgot about the lone exception in the universe to Newton's 3rd Law. @MCHammer -- He can touch you, but You can't touch this. Agreed. Newton's 3rd law of motion, For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction poeticized: You cannot touch without being touched. Flash photo at a water spray, amid bushes and the glare of a low, setting Sun. The effect, to Chapter 8 of Astrophysics for People in A Hurry: On Being Round. Now in Bulgarian! (via Iztok-Zapad) It's not magic. It's science. Misunderstood. I accept the criticism. But I'll also note that FYI, like other common abbreviations, take on lives of their own. We don't say Let's ask the NASA for just that reason. Is FYI there yet?An entity unto itself? I'm a fan of vowels wherever they lurk: F, when pronounced alone, is spelled ef, which begins with a vowel. Hence the an preceding my FYI abbreviation. Had FYI been spelled out, the F sound changes, becoming the first letter of For, then deserving a preceding a. Just an FYI: Easter on the Gregorian Calendar contains a double astronomical reference: The first Sunday after the first Full Moon after the Vernal (Spring) Equinox. Eclipses, which occur only during new or full moons, can therefore never happen on Easter Sunday. A friend and hero. Beloved by millions. Rusty Staub RIP 1944-2018. Sing with me, sing for the year / Sing for the laughter & sing for the tear. Turning 70 today - #HappyBdayStevenTyler b. 26 March 1948. One-of-a-kind in this Universe. Rock on. From the looks of that photo, apparently Pluto, himself, is just fine with it all. My bananas have feelings. I think it's actually a berry. I think bananas are actually berries. Sad banana. Four concepts that exist only in the negation of another word: non-fiction, un-retuoched, a-theist, un-abridged. The time has come for those of us who write non-fiction to rise up and adopt the word faction so that we're no longer forced to live in the negation of another genre. No. Contrary to widespread suspicions, Stephen Hawking and I were never buddies in childhood. Not that anybody asked, but in an ellipse-shaped room, sound generated at one focus concentrates at the other focus, enhancing audibility. An Unapologetically Geeky Fact: The eccentricity of the ellipse that is the White House Oval Office is: e = 0.62, with the desk chair positioned at one focus & the couches near the other. (FYI: eccentricity of a Circle: e = 0.00; of a Parabola: e = 1.00) I'd bet the In-N-Out burger Space Aliens are not the math-fluent ones. Fractal Food. If math-fluent Space Aliens coveted anything we eat, it would surely be #Romanesco Pointlessly geeky fact: 33 is the number of Pi digits required to manifest all ten numerals at least once: 3.14159265358979323846264338327950 Me neither! Ten days ago my #StarTalk interview with Stephen Hawking first aired on @NatGeoChannel. We offer here a commercial-free posting of that show. With @mattkirshen & @JannaLevin Wait, there's more. I say bless you to sneezes. I say goodbye (from God-Be-With-You) to those who leave. I say Godspeed to astronaut friends about to launch. And I gleefully use BC & AD. (p.s. I'd bet you use the term sunrise even though you know Earth is what turns.) His passing has left an intellectual vacuum in his wake. But it's not empty. Think of it as a kind of vacuum energy permeating the fabric of spacetime that defies measure. Stephen Hawking, RIP 1942-2018. In five-billion years, as the Sun begins to die, its outer layers of glowing plasma will expand stupendously, engulfing the orbits of Mercury, then Venus, as the charred ember that was once the oasis of life called Earth vaporizes into the vacuum of space. Have a nice day! Odd, isn't it. Every reason given for Daylight Saving Time in summer months could just as well apply to winter months. Thanks, but could never be me. The right arm tattoo includes Pluto. And me and Pluto have issues. Of course, you could have seen the Total Solar Eclipse just a easily from the ground, without hiking to the top of the tower. Cool. That would have been August 31, 1932. At 4:33pm. A mere 54 seconds of totality. Between five and seven times per week. Mixed with an occasional barrage. Lower than most, if you haven't noticed. A square spiral. Also, a reminder of why somebody invented Elevators. Pilgrim Monument, Yuuup. Bears repeating: Creativity that satisfies & affirms your world view is Entertainment. Creativity that challenges & disrupts your world view is Art. Apparently, after his show ended, @FOXTV's Cleveland went into Space. He now plays an actor named Mike Henry, who plays an alien named Dann on @TheOrville. ( : - ) Yup. She's all that. The @StarTalkRadio interview with @kelly_clarkson. Singing Science On @ApplePodcasts & Ava. Future Scientist. On further reflection, gotta stick with Pi on this one, making all rotations whole number Pi's. With Tau, you'll get needless fractions. Hard enough warming people to Pi. Now you want to Tau them? If the #Olympics were a bit geekier, they would measure aerial acrobatics in Radians. Every half-rotation is Pi Radians, making it easier to track and say how many rotations were executed. You're just counting Pi's. If there's anything we've learned from the aerial acrobatics of 2018 Winter #Olympics, it's which numbers are fractionally and fully divisible by 360 degrees. A subject is scientifically controversial when actively debated by legions of scientists, not when actively debated by the public, the press, or by politicians. You know they're out there, whether or not you are among them. Smiles are never ugly. They're the simplest and most honest expressions of joy for our species. For cats, it's a purr. For dogs, it's a wag of their tail. A Puffin in profile, posing as if they know in advance they're more photogenic that way. Feb 18, 1930, Clyde Tombaugh discovered Pluto. The little ice-ball is so far away, it has barely finished 1/3 of its 248-year orbit around the Sun Self-driving cars. Feb 18, 2018: Eighty-eight years ago today, Clyde Tombaugh of the @LowellObs discovered Pluto -- a legit planet until @PlutoKiller cemented its dwarf-planet fate, then confessed it in his twitter handle. (I was merely an accessory.) Sure. That's what motivates most prayer. I argued only against prayer as a mechanism for stopping bullets. At least so is a real word. But I agree, I can do better, and will try. p.s. I discourage ums only within academic settings with students, and not for the general public. But wait, I also had a small part in Ice Age V. That make me really important. Evidence collected over many years, obtained from many locations, indicates that the power of Prayer is insufficient to stop bullets from killing school children. Venus is Roman. Venereal is formal Latin Genitive. That's what make it proper. Just an FYI: The proper word for someone from Venus, -- the planet of love, beauty, and its consequences - is Venereal. But medical doctors took the word before astrophysicists did. So we're stuck with Venusians. Indeed. An evidence-based creation myth. A change from one of my first tweets ever, in February 2009: A benchmark Tweet for me, establishing the style and content of all tweets to follow. FYI: My only two tweets posted on December 3, 2015: Not enough of us are impressed by plants whose vitality require no more than a crack in the They run into burning buildings as we flee them. They approach where bullets are fired as we frantically escape the danger. They mobilize for natural disasters as we shudder in fear of our lives. First Responders -- a rare & cherished subset of our species. Like others, I too noticed that as the game wore on, Tom Brady looked more and more deflated. Our collectives association of EM radio waves with sound is strong. Was one of the first ways we exploited that band of light. EM waves can carry information that we convert to sound on the receiving end. We sometimes do that with cosmic sources. At higher latitudes (north or south) twilight lasts vastly longer than in the tropics. Lake The Eagle has landed. A composite, faked photo, Apparently to be appreciated for its beauty and not its authenticity. Personally, I think real Nature is beautiful enough to not require Photoshop. But that's just me. Given their relative cranial capacity, I'd bet actual Hogs would make better weather forecasters than Ground Hogs. Why, yes, a Speedmaster. Gift of Omega for winning the Stephen Hawking medal for science communication If I were Cuban, and if I smoked Cohiba Cigars, and if I knew how to write music, and if I composed pensive songs about life in the Caribbean, then this would be my Album Cover. Thanks. Although personally, I was more stunned than horrified. many no understanding the definition of the word immigrant'. Go the link in my previous tweet. Moonstruck over the Blue-Blood-Super-Eclipse-Full Moon of January 31, 2018? If interested: Not that anybody asked, but one-third (95 out of 289) of all American Nobel Prizes in the Sciences have been earned by Immigrants to the United States. Yes, my room was at the end of this semi-infinite corridor at a hotel in Nashville. Intrigued by Anti-GMO? Pro-GMO? Food Evolution - A full-length doc on the science of genetically engineered food. Theatrical Trailer and Hulu Link: FYI: Was a non-working dummy mic, dropped onto a cushion. I was separately lav'ed for sound in the Larry Willmore Show: 2016-01-27 Don't make me find you and mic-drop on your ass. Now fixed, apparently. Shamed into action. When you're done with One Universe, or even when you're not done, this video series is about the unsolved mysteries of the universe. : - ) This should be a fun one. A highly readable, thorough exploration of the laws of physics in a coffee table book format. Google must be talking about a different Earth and a different Sun. Our Earth and Sun are separated by 500 light seconds. Nice catch, @NickLilja. Thanks. I'm on it. -NDT For my first Instagram post I offer my first photo (perhaps the first-ever photo) of POSTED: @StarTalkRadio's Season 8 Time Capsule (Part 2) w/ @BillNye & more, on @ApplePodcasts & POSTED: @StarTalkRadio Season 8 Time Capsule (Part 1) w/ @WilliamShatner and more, on @ApplePodcasts & Getting into shape for Cosmos. By my measure, 6'2 and 260 lbs this morning. Leaving me to wonder what height & weight the White House physician would assign me. If Bears were in charge, after they hunted us to near-extinction, I wonder if they'd invent a candy called Gummy Humans. Sometimes I'm the last to know: Just learned that in formal parlance the plural of y'all is all y'all. Oh-Happy-Day appears 59 times in his arrangement of the Gospel song Oh Happy Day. I counted every one when I was 10 yrs old. Edwin Hawkins (1943-2018), Rest In Happy Peace. Sometimes I wonder if people who aggressively seek political power are precisely those who should not be entrusted to wield it. Nothing in the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity. -Martin Luther King Jr. 1963 You want to speak with a Spaniard, you learn Spanish. You want to frolic in France, you learn French. You want to commune with the cosmos, you learn Mathematics - the language of the Universe. Welcome to the List. A fickle place where Books bob up and down like corks in the turbulent waves of reader sentiment. Yup. We got the band back together. Another season of Cosmos is officially real. COSMOS: Possible Worlds To air on @FOXTV & @NatGeoChannel in a year - Spring 2019. Be there.